What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries.
How then is this?
What do they here?
What is the chief element he employs?
Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?
Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?
Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land?
Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy?
Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?
What does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament?
Who ain't a slave?
Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?
Whence came they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?
What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the world.
Whence comest thou?
What people?
How then could I unite with this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?
Was there ever such unconsciousness?
What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?
Where's your harpoon?"
Was the other one lost by a whale?"
Was not that what ye said?
How far ye got, Bildad?"
When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?"
What's the matter with you, shipmate?"
Where's that girl?--there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint me a sign, with--"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both birds at once.
What's that noise there?
What church dost thee mean? answer me."
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for signing, he turned to me and said, "I guess, Quohog there don't know how to write, does he?
Who knows it?
Why did the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals of their whaling fleets?
Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket?
Why did Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of L1,000,000?
How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in whaling?
Who wrote the first account of our Leviathan?
How they use the salt, precisely--who knows?
What then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted state, the sweetest of all oils?
What doom was his own father's?
Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?
How he flashed at me!--his eyes like powder-pans! is he mad?
Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
What the devil's the matter with me?
How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?
What business have I with this pipe?
What's that he shouts?
Will he the (leviathan) make a covenant with thee?
What then is the whale, which I include in the second species of my Folios?
How then?
What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way.
Wherefore this difference?
What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now?
How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market."
How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall?
Who's over me?
What is it more?
What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?
Why so?
What's my juicy little pear at home doing now?
What say ye?
Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d'ye do?
How then, if so be transplanted to yon sky?
What of that?
What's that I saw--lightning?
Why then, God, mad'st thou the ring?
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?
Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag?
What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
Why should this be so?
Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded with new-fallen snow?
Was it not so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?
Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the Tattoo Land?
Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright?
What say ye, Cabaco?
What is it you stare at?
Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?
Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes don't ye pull?--pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
Will you mount?"
Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's jaws?"
What does the whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?
What say ye, men?' turning to his comrades.
Whom call you Moby Dick?' "'A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;--but that would be too long a story.' "'How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding. "'Nay, Dons, Dons--nay, nay!
Where did Guido get the model of such a strange creature as that?
What shall be said of these?
Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon the other?
How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and bitin' dare?"
How old are you, cook?" "'Bout ninety, dey say," he gloomily muttered.
What! that your heart, there?--that's your gizzard!
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?
What were you about saying, sir?"
Who's afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil kidnapped, he'd roast for him?
How is it, then, with the whale?
When two large, loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the sailors do?
What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais?
How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head?
How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and sweetly perished there?
What d'ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces for the honour of old Gayhead?
What d'ye say?"
Who had darted that stone lance?
Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
How is that?
What then remained?
How is this?
Who struck?--Two whale; one big, one little!"
What are the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law?
What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last mite but a Fast-Fish?
What is yonder undetected villain's marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish?
What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish?
What is the Archbishop of Savesoul's income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of heaven without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular L100,000 but a Fast-Fish?
What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish?
What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish?
What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish?
What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
What was Poland to the Czar?
What Greece to the Turk?
What India to England?
What at last will Mexico be to the United States?
What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish?
What all men's minds and opinions but Loose-Fish?
What is the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish?
What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but Loose-Fish?
What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish?
What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude?
What then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing wonderful?
What says the Cannibal?
What does he say, with that look of his?
How did it get there?
Where did'st thou see the White Whale?--how long ago?"
What should I do without this other arm?
How long since thou saw'st him last?
Which way heading?"
Which way heading?"
How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the whale?
How, then, with me, writing of this Leviathan?
Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan?
Was it that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him?
What's Prometheus about there?--the blacksmith, I mean--what's he about?
What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
What art thou sneezing about?
Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a hair, do I. Is't a riddle?
How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite?
What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all three places standing in one hell--how was that?
What cares Ahab?
Where learned he that, but there?--Hark! he speaks again: but more wildly now."
Why tell the whole?
How can'st thou endure without being mad?
Will ye give me as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up.
Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no more?
Where is the foundling's father hidden?
Where is Moby Dick?
What then?
What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't got any lightning-rod at all in a storm?
What are you talking about, then?
Why don't ye be sensible, Flask? it's easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be sensible."
What's the use of thunder?
What! hope to wrest this old man's living power from his own living hands?
What, then, remains?
Where wert thou born?"
Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
Who art thou, boy?"
Who's seen Pip the coward?"
What's here?"
What's that?"
What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts?
Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed sound?
Who ever heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season?
Who's seen Pip?
What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there's no opening it.
What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men with gold lace upon their coats!--Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?--a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly!
Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or better is Ahab now?
Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar?
What means that little word?--What death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.
What d'ye see?"
How, got the start?
What's this?--green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
What's that he said? he should still go before me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again?
Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to.
Where is the second hearse?
Will ye not save my ship?"
Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking eye?
Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one did survive the wreck.
