(A foggy night, and a policeman is patrolling his beat past I M Foreman's Scrap Merchants at 76 Totter's Lane. Inside is an assortment of items, including a police telephone box.)
[Coal Hill School corridor]

(The bell is ringing for end of classes) 
BARBARA: Wait in here, please, Susan. I won't be long. 
BOY: Goodnight, Miss Wright.

[Laboratory]

(A man is tidying up after the class) 
IAN: Oh? Not gone yet? 
BARBARA: Obviously not. 
IAN: Right, ask a silly question. 
BARBARA: I'm sorry. 
IAN: That's all right. I'll forgive you this time. 
BARBARA: Oh, I had a terrible day. I don't know what to make of it. 
IAN: Oh, what's the trouble? Can I help? 
BARBARA: Oh, it's one of the girls, Susan Foreman. 
IAN: Susan Foreman? She your problem too? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: You don't know what to make of her? 
BARBARA: No. 
IAN: How old is she, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Fifteen. 
IAN: Fifteen. She lets her knowledge out a bit at a time so as not to embarrass me. That's what I feel about her. She knows more science than I'll ever know. She's a genius. Is that what she's doing with history? 
BARBARA: Something like that. 
IAN: So your problem is whether to stay in business or to hand over the class to her. 
BARBARA: No, not quite. 
IAN: What, then? 
BARBARA: Ian, I must talk to someone about this, but I don't want to get the girl into trouble. And I know you're going to tell me I'm imagining things. 
IAN: No, I'm not. 
BARBARA: Well, I told you how good she is at history. I had a talk with her and told her she ought to specialise. Well, she seemed quite interested until I said I'd be willing to work with her at her home. Then she said that would be absolutely impossible as her grandfather didn't like strangers. 
IAN: He's a doctor, isn't he? That's a bit of a lame excuse. 
BARBARA: Well, I didn't pursue the point but then recently her homework's been so bad. 
IAN: Yes, I know. 
BARBARA: Finally I got so irritated with all her excuses I decided to have a talk with this grandfather of hers and tell him to take some interest in her. 
IAN: Did you indeed? And what's the old boy like? 
BARBARA: Well, that's just it. I got her address from the secretary, 76 Totter's Lane, and I went along there one evening. Oh Ian, do pay attention. 
IAN: Sorry. You went along there one evening? 
BARBARA: There isn't anything there. It's just an old junkyard. 
IAN: You must have gone to the wrong place. 
BARBARA: Well, that was the address the secretary gave me. 
IAN: The secretary got it wrong, then. 
BARBARA: No. I checked. There's a big wall on one side, houses on the other and nothing in the middle. And this nothing in the middle is number 76 Totter's Lane. 
IAN: Hmm. That's a bit of a mystery. Well, there must be a simple answer somewhere. 
BARBARA: Well, what? 
IAN: Well, we'll have to find out for ourselves, won't we? 
BARBARA: Thank you for the we. She's waiting in one of the classrooms. I'm lending her a book on the French Revolution. 
IAN: What's she going to do, rewrite it? Oh, all right. What do we do? Ask her point-blank? 
BARBARA: No, I thought we could drive there, wait till she arrives and see where she goes. 
IAN: Oh, all right. 
BARBARA: That is, if you're not doing anything. 
IAN: No, I'm not. After you.

[Classroom]

(Susan is listening to guitar rock music on her transistor radio. I'm thinking The Shadows. She looks a little elfin, like Audrey Hepburn) 
BARBARA: Susan? 
SUSAN: Oh, I'm sorry, Miss Wright. I didn't hear you coming in. Aren't they fabulous? 
BARBARA: Who? 
SUSAN: It's John Smith and the Common Men. They've gone from nineteen to two. 
IAN: John Smith is the stage name of the Honourable Aubrey Waites. He started his career as Chris Waites and the Carollers, didn't he, Susan? 
SUSAN: You are surprising, Mister Chesterton. I wouldn't expect you to know things like that. 
IAN: I have an enquiring mind. And a very sensitive ear. 
SUSAN: Oh, I'm sorry. 
(She turns the radio off.) 
IAN: Thank you. 
SUSAN: Is that the book you promised me? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
SUSAN: Thank you very much. It will be interesting. I'll return it tomorrow. 
BARBARA: Oh, that's not necessary. Keep it until you've finished it. 
SUSAN: I'll have finished it. 
IAN: Oh, where do you live, Susan? I'm giving Miss Wright a lift, I've got room for one more. 
SUSAN: No, thank you, Mister Chesterton. I like walking through the dark. It's mysterious. 
BARBARA: Be careful, Susan, there'll probably be fog again tonight. 
SUSAN: Mmm. 
BARBARA: See you in the morning. 
SUSAN: I expect so. Good night. 
BARBARA: Good night. 
IAN: Good night, Susan. 
(They leave. Susan sits on a desk and starts reading.) 
SUSAN: But that's not right.

[Totter's Lane]

(Ian and Barbara are parked up.) 
BARBARA: Over there. 
IAN: We're lucky there was no fog. I'd never have found this. 
BARBARA: Well, she doesn't seem to have arrived yet. I suppose we are doing the right thing, aren't we? 
IAN: You can't justify curiosity. 
BARBARA: But her homework? 
IAN: A bit of an excuse, really, isn't it? I've seen far worse. The truth is, we're both curious about Susan and we won't be happy until we know some of the answers. 
BARBARA: You can't just pass it off like that. If I thought I was just being a busybody, I'd go straight home. I thought you agreed she was a bit of a mystery. 
IAN: Yes, but I think you'll find there's a very simple explanation to all this. 
BARBARA: Well, I don't know how you explain the fact that a fifteen year old girl does not know how many shillings there are in a pound. 
IAN: Really? 
BARBARA: Really. She said she thought we were on the decimal system. 
IAN: Decimal system?

[Memory - classroom]

(The other pupils are laughing.) 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Miss Wright. 
BARBARA: Don't be silly, Susan. The United States has a decimal system. You know perfectly well that we do not. 
SUSAN: Of course, the decimal system hasn't started yet.

[Totter's Lane]

IAN: I suppose she couldn't be a foreigner? No, doesn't make sense. Nothing about this girl makes sense. For instance, the other day I talking about chemical changes. I'd given out the litmus paper to show cause and effect 
BARBARA: And she knew the answer before you'd started. 
IAN: Well, not quite. The answer simply didn't interest her.

[Memory - laboratory] 
SUSAN: Yes, I can see red turns to blue, Mister Chesterton, but that's because we're dealing with two inactive chemicals. They only act in relation to each other. 
IAN: But that's the whole point of the experiment, Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes, it's a bit obvious, isn't it? Well, I'm not trying to be rude, but couldn't we deal with two active chemicals? Then red could turn blue all by itself and get on with something else? I'm sorry, it was just an idea.

[Totter's Lane]

IAN: She means it. These simple experiments are child's play to her. 
BARBARA: You know, it's almost got to the point where I deliberately want to trip her up. 
IAN: Yes. Something like that happened the other day. I'd set the class a problem with A, B and C as the three dimensions.

[Memory - classroom]

SUSAN: It's impossible unless you use D and E. 
IAN: D and E? Whatever for? Do the problem that's set, Susan. 
SUSAN: I can't, Mister Chesterton. You can't simply work on three of the dimensions. 
IAN: Three of them? Oh, time being the fourth dimension, I suppose? Then what do you need E for? What do you make the fifth dimension? 
SUSAN: Space.

[Totter's Lane]

BARBARA: Too many questions and not enough answers. 
IAN: Stupid? Or just doesn't know. So we have a fifteen year old girl who is absolutely brilliant at some things, and excruciatingly bad at others. 
BARBARA: There she is. 
(Susan looks around then goes into the scrap yard.) 
BARBARA: Look, can we go in now? I hate to think of her alone in that place. 
IAN: If she is alone. Look, she is fifteen. She might be meeting a boy. Didn't that occur to you? 
BARBARA: I almost hope she is. 
IAN: What do you mean? 
BARBARA: Well, it would be so wonderfully normal. It's silly, isn't it? I feel frightened. As if we're about to interfere in something that is best left alone. 
IAN: Come on, let's get it over with. 
(They get out of the car.) 
BARBARA: Well, don't you feel it? 
IAN: I take things as they come. Come on.

[Junk yard]

(Ian has a small torch in his hand. There is no sign of Susan.) 
IAN: What a mess. We're not turning over any of this stuff to find her.. 
BARBARA: Over there? 
(Ian falls over a bucket or something.) 
IAN: Blast. I've dropped it. 
BARBARA: What? 
IAN: The torch. 
BARBARA: Well, use a match. 
IAN: I haven't got any. Oh, never mind. 
BARBARA: Susan? 
IAN: Susan? Susan? Susan! Susan. Mister Chesterton and Miss Wright. She can't have got out without us seeing her. 
BARBARA: Ian, look at this. 
(She's found the police telephone box.) 
IAN: It's a police box! What on earth's it doing here? These things are usually on the street. Feel it. Feel it. Do you feel it? 
BARBARA: It's a faint vibration. 
IAN: It's alive! 
(He walks around it.) 
IAN: It's not connected to anything, unless it's through the floor. 
BARBARA: Look, I've had enough. Let's go and find a policeman. 
IAN: Yes, all right. 
(Someone coughs.) 
BARBARA: Is that her? 
IAN: That's not her. Quick. 
(They hide as an old man in Astrakhan hat and a long scarf enters the yard. He goes to the police box and puts a key in the lock.) 
SUSAN [OC]: There you are, Grandfather. 
BARBARA: It's Susan. 
IAN: Shush! 
(Ian comes out from the hiding place.) 
IAN: Excuse me. 
DOCTOR: What are you doing here? 
IAN: We're looking for a young girl. 
DOCTOR: We? 
BARBARA: Good evening. 
DOCTOR: What do you want? 
IAN: One of our pupils, Susan Foreman, came into this yard. 
DOCTOR: Really? In here? Are you sure? 
BARBARA: Yes, we saw her from across the street. 
DOCTOR: (aside) One of their pupils, not the police, then. 
IAN: I beg your pardon? 
DOCTOR: Why were you were spying on her? Who are you? 
IAN: We heard a young girl's voice call out to you. 
DOCTOR: Your hearing must be very acute. I didn't hear anything. 
BARBARA: It came from in here. 
DOCTOR: You imagined it. 
BARBARA: I certainly did not imagine it. 
DOCTOR: Young man, is it reasonable to suppose that anybody would be inside a cupboard like that, hmm? 
IAN: Would it therefore be unreasonable to ask you to let us have a look inside? 
(The Doctor goes to an ornate picture frame.) 
DOCTOR: I wonder why I've never seen that before. Now isn't that strange. Very damp and dirty. 
BARBARA: Won't you help us? We're two of her teachers from the Coal Hill School. We saw her come in and we haven't seen her leave. Naturally, we're worried. 
DOCTOR: Have to be cleaned. Hmm? Oh, I'm afraid it's none of my business. I suggest you leave here. 
IAN: Not until we're satisfied that Susan isn't in there. And frankly, I don't understand your attitude. 
DOCTOR: Yours leaves a lot to be desired. 
IAN: Will you open the door? 
DOCTOR: There's nothing in there. 
IAN: Then what are you afraid to show us? 
DOCTOR: Afraid? Oh, go away. 
IAN: I think we'd better go and fetch a policeman. 
DOCTOR: Very well. 
IAN: And you're coming with us. 
DOCTOR: Oh, am I? I don't think so, young man. No, I don't think so. 
BARBARA: We can't force him. 
IAN: But we can't leave him here. Doesn't it seem obvious to you he's got her locked up in there? Look at it. There's no door handle. There must be a secret lock somewhere. 
BARBARA: That was Susan's voice. 
IAN: But of course it was. Susan! Susan! Susan, are you in there? It's Mister Chesterton and Miss Wright, Susan. 
DOCTOR: Don't you think you're being rather high-handed, young man? You thought you saw a young girl enter the yard. You imagine you heard her voice. You believe she might be inside there. It's not very substantial, is it? 
BARBARA: But why won't you help us? 
DOCTOR: I'm not hindering you. If you both want to make fools of yourselves, I suggest you do what you said you'd do. Go and find a policeman. 
IAN: While you nip off quietly in the other direction. 
DOCTOR: Insulting. There's only one way in and out of this yard. I shall be here when you get back. I want to see your faces when you try to explain away your behaviour to a policeman. 
IAN: Nevertheless, we're going to find one. Come on, Barbara. 
SUSAN [OC]: What are you doing out there? 
IAN: She is in there! 
DOCTOR: Close the door! 
IAN: Barbara! 
(Barbara goes inside the box as Ian briefly struggles with the Doctor before following her.)

[Tardis]

(Barbara finds herself in a very big room, with chair, hat stand, various other pieces of furniture, and Susan standing at a six-sided console in the centre.) 
DOCTOR: Close the door, Susan. I believe these people are known to you. 
SUSAN: They're two of my schoolteachers. What are you doing here? 
BARBARA: Where are we? 
DOCTOR: They must have followed you. That ridiculous school. I knew something like this would happen if we stayed in one place too long. 
SUSAN: But why should they follow me? 
BARBARA: Is this really where you live, Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: And what's wrong with it? 
IAN: But it was just a telephone box. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps. 
BARBARA: And this is your grandfather? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: But why didn't you tell us that? 
DOCTOR: I don't discuss my private life with strangers. 
IAN: But it was a police telephone box. I walked all around it. Barbara, you saw me. 
DOCTOR: You don't deserve any explanations. You pushed your way in here uninvited and unwelcome. 
BARBARA: I think we ought to leave. 
IAN: No, just a minute. I know this is absurd, but I feel 
(The Doctor is examining an ornate clock.) 
DOCTOR: Oh dear, dear, dear dear. This is very 
IAN: I walked all round it. 
DOCTOR: It's stopped again, you know, and I've tried hmm? Oh, you wouldn't understand. 
IAN: But I want to understand. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. By the way, Susan, I managed to find a replacement for that faulty filament. It's an amateur job, but I think it'll serve. 
IAN: It's an illusion. It must be. 
DOCTOR: What is he talking about now? 
SUSAN: What are you doing here? 
DOCTOR: You don't understand, so you find excuses. Illusions, indeed? You say you can't fit an enormous building into one of your smaller sitting rooms. 
IAN: No. 
DOCTOR: But you've discovered television, haven't you? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Then by showing an enormous building on your television screen, you can do what seemed impossible, couldn't you? 
IAN: Well, yes, but I still don't know 
DOCTOR: Not quite clear, is it. I can see by your face that you're not certain. You don't understand. And I knew you wouldn't. Never mind. Now then, which switch was it? No. No, no. Ah yes, that is it. The point is not whether you understand. What is going to happen to you, hmm? They'll tell everybody about the ship now. 
IAN: Ship? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, ship. This doesn't roll along on wheels, you know. 
BARBARA: You mean it moves? 
SUSAN: The Tardis can go anywhere. 
BARBARA: Tardis? I don't understand you, Susan. 
SUSAN: Well, I made up the name Tardis from the initials, Time And Relative Dimension In Space. I thought you'd both understand when you saw the different dimensions inside from those outside. 
IAN: Just let me get this straight. A thing that looks like a police box, standing in a junkyard, it can move anywhere in time and space? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Quite so. 
IAN: But that's ridiculous. 
SUSAN: Why won't they believe us? 
BARBARA: How can we? 
DOCTOR: Now, now, don't get exasperated, Susan. Remember the Red Indian. When he saw the first steam train, his savage mind thought it an illusion, too. 
IAN: You're treating us like children. 
DOCTOR: Am I? The children of my civilisation would be insulted. 
IAN: Your civilisation? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my civilisation. I tolerate this century, but I don't enjoy it. Have you ever thought what it's like to be wanderers in the fourth dimension? Have you? To be exiles? Susan and I are cut off from our own planet, without friends or protection. But one day we shall get back. Yes, one day. One day. 
SUSAN: It's true. Every word of it's true. You don't know what you've done coming in here. Grandfather, let them go now, please. Look, if they don't understand, they can't, they can't hurt us at all. I understand these people better than you. Their minds reject things they don't understand. 
DOCTOR: No. 
IAN: He can't keep us here. 
BARBARA: Susan, listen to me. Can't you see that all this is an illusion? It's a game that you and your grandfather are playing, if you like, but you can't expect us to believe it. 
SUSAN: It's not a game! 
BARBARA: But Susan, it's 
SUSAN: It's not! Look, I love your school. I loved England in the twentieth century. The last five months have been the happiest of my life. 
BARBARA: But you are one of us. You look like us, you sound like us. 
SUSAN: I was born in another time, another world. 
IAN: Now look here, Susan, you. Oh, come on, Barbara, let's get out of here. 
SUSAN: It's no use, you can't get out. He won't let you go. 
IAN: He closed the doors from over there. I saw him. Now, which is it? Which is it? Which control operates the door? 
DOCTOR: You still think it's all an illusion? 
IAN: I know that free movement time and space is a scientific dream I don't expect to find solved in a junkyard. 
DOCTOR: Your arrogance is nearly as great as your ignorance.
IAN: Will you open the door? Open the door! Susan, will you help us? 
SUSAN: I mustn't. 
IAN: Very well, then. I'll have to risk it myself. 
DOCTOR: I can't stop you. 
SUSAN: Don't touch it! It's live! 
(Ian gets an electric shock from the console.) 
BARBARA: Ian! What on earth do you think you're doing? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, let them go now, please. 
DOCTOR: And by tomorrow we shall be a pubic spectacle, a subject for news and idle gossip.
SUSAN: But they won't say anything.
DOCTOR: My dear child, of course they will. Put yourself in their place. They are bound to make some sort of a complaint to the authorities, or at the very least talk to their friends. If I do let them go, Susan, you realise of course we must go, too.
SUSAN: No, Grandfather, we've had all this out before. 
DOCTOR: There's no alternative, child. 
SUSAN: I want to stay! But they're both kind people. Why won't you trust them? All you've got to do is ask them to promise to keep our secret 
DOCTOR: It's out of the question. 
SUSAN: I won't go, Grandfather. I won't leave the twentieth century. I'd rather leave the Tardis and you.
DOCTOR: Now you're being sentimental and childish. 
SUSAN: No, I mean it.
DOCTOR: Very well. Then you must go with them. I'll open the door.
BARBARA: Are you coming, Susan? 
(But instead of flipping the switch to open the doors, the Doctor starts the time rotor moving.)
SUSAN: Oh, no, Grandfather! No!
DOCTOR: Let me go.
SUSAN: No!
DOCTOR: Get back to the ship, child. Hold it.
(Ian and Barbara are thrown from side to side. The Doctor and Susan hang on to the console. Eventually Barbara lands in the chair and Ian on the floor. The Tardis heads into the vortex with a lot of noise and the opening title effects superimposed over the Doctor and Susan's faces. Later, it is peaceful and quiet. On the scanner is a view of a desolate, scrubby land. The shadow of a scruffy figure in animals skins is looking at the Tardis)
Episode two - The Cave of Skulls

[Cave]

(A group of unkempt people in furs are gathered around a man rubbing a bone with his hands) 
MOTHER: Where is the fire Za makes? 
HUR: (a woman) In his hands. We are not going to the wood. 
ZA: My father made fire. 
MOTHER: They killed him for it. It is better that we live as we have always done. 
ZA: He showed me how to sharpen the stones and trap the bear and the tiger. He should have shown me this, too. 
MOTHER: So that everyone would bow to you as they did to him? 
ZA: Tell me what my father did to make fire. 
MOTHER: I never saw him make it. That is all I know. 
ZA: Out of my sight, old woman. You should have died with him. 
MOTHER: Za will never make fire. 
ZA: Put on more of the dead fire. 
(Hur adds ash, and Za rubs the bone between his hands again. 
HUR: The old men are talking against you, Za. They say it would be better for the stranger Kal to lead us. 
ZA: Kal? 
HUR: They say you sit all day rubbing your hands together while he brings us meat. 
ZA: Without meat, we go hungry. Without fire, we die. 
HUR: Old men see no further than tomorrow's meat. They will make Kal the leader. My father will give me to him. 
ZA: Kal is no leader. 
HUR: The leader is the one who makes fire. 
ZA: Where has the fire gone? Where? Where?

[Tardis]

(Barbara wakes up) 
BARBARA: Ian? Ian. 
IAN: I'm all right. I must have hit my head. The movement's stopped. 
SUSAN: The base is steady. 
DOCTOR: Layer of sand, rock formation. Good. 
SUSAN: We've left 1963. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, undoubtedly. I'll be able to tell you where presently. Zero? That's not right. I'm afraid this yearometer is not calculating properly. Hm! Well, anyway, the journey's finished. (to Ian) What are you doing down there? 
BARBARA: What have you done? 
IAN: Barbara, you don't believe all this nonsense. 
SUSAN: Well, look at the scanner screen. 
DOCTOR: Yes, look up there. They don't understand and I suspect they don't want to. Well, there you are. A new world for you. 
IAN: Sand and rock? 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's the immediate view outside the ship. 
BARBARA: But where are we? 
IAN: You mean that's what we'll see when we go outside? 
SUSAN: Yes, you'll see it for yourself. 
IAN: I don't believe it. 
DOCTOR: You really are a stubborn young man, aren't you? 
IAN: All right, show me some proof. Give me some concrete evidence. I'm sorry, Susan, I don't want to hurt you, but it's time you were brought back to reality. 
SUSAN: But you're wrong, Mister Chesterton. 
DOCTOR: They are saying I'm a charlatan. What concrete evidence would satisfy you? 
IAN: Just open the doors, Doctor Foreman. 
DOCTOR: Eh? Doctor who? What's he talking about? 
BARBARA: They're so sure, Ian. 
IAN: Yes, I know. 
BARBARA: And remember the difference between the outside of the police box and the inside. 
IAN: Yes, I know, but. Are you going to open the doors or aren't you? 
DOCTOR: No. 
IAN: You see? 
DOCTOR: Not until I'm quite sure it's safe to do so. Well, yes, good. Yes, it is, it's good. Excellent, excellent. You've got the radiation counter there. What's it read? 
SUSAN: It's reading normal, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. Well, I think I'll take my Geiger counter with me in any case. So, you still challenge me, young man? 
IAN: Well, just open the doors and prove your point. 
DOCTOR: You're so narrow-minded, aren't you? Don't be so insular. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, do you know where we are? 
DOCTOR: Yes, we've gone back in time, all right. One or two samples and I shall be able to make an estimate. With rock pieces and a few plants. But I do wish this wouldn't keep letting me down. However, we can go out now. 
IAN: Just a minute. You say we've gone back in time? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. 
IAN: So that when we go out of that door, we won't be in a junkyard in London in England in the year 1963? 
DOCTOR: That is quite correct. But your tone suggests ridicule. 
IAN: But it is ridiculous. Time doesn't go round and round in circles. You can't get on and off whenever you like in the past or the future. 
DOCTOR: Really? Where does time go, then? 
IAN: It doesn't go anywhere. It just happens and then it's finished. 
DOCTOR: (to Barbara) You're not as doubtful as your friend, I hope? 
BARBARA: No. 
IAN: Barbara, you can't 
BARBARA: I can't help it. I just believe them, that's all.
DOCTOR: If you could touch the alien sand and hear the cries of strange birds and watch them wheel in another sky, would that satisfy you? 
IAN: Yes. 
(The Doctor opens the doors) 
DOCTOR: Now, see for yourself. 
IAN: It's not true. It can't be. 
SUSAN: That's not on the screen. 
DOCTOR: Well I've no more time to argue with you. I must get some samples, Susan. 
SUSAN: Be careful, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: (exiting, muttering) Oh, dear, it's disgusting really. 
(Barbara leaves the Tardis) 
BARBARA: Ian, come out and look. 
(Ian stumbles and clutches his head) 
SUSAN: Oh here, lean on me. 
IAN: No, thank you. I'm all right, thanks. 
(Ian and Susan step outside, and the doors close behind them)

[Wasteland]

BARBARA: Well? 
IAN: But there must be some explanation. 
DOCTOR: It's still a police box. Why hasn't it changed? Dear, dear, how very disturbing. 
(The Doctor collects his rock samples, watched by the primitive man. Barbara comes across an animal skull in the sand) 
BARBARA: What do you think it could be? Ian, look at this. 
IAN: I don't know. It hasn't got any horns or antlers. Could be a horse. Could be anything. Incredible. A police box in the midst of. Oh, it just doesn't make sense. 
SUSAN: It should have changed. Wonder why it hasn't happened this time. 
BARBARA: The ship, you mean? 
SUSAN: Yes, it's been an Ionic column and a sedan chair. 
BARBARA: Disguising itself wherever it goes. 
SUSAN: Yes, that's right. But it hasn't happened this time. I wonder why not. I wonder if this old head would help Grandfather. Where is he? 
BARBARA: You're very quiet. 
IAN: I was wrong, wasn't I. 
BARBARA: Oh, look, I don't understand it any more than you do. The inside of the ship, suddenly finding ourselves here. Even some of the things Doctor Foreman says 
IAN: That's not his name. Who is he? Doctor who? Perhaps if we knew his name we might have a clue to all this. 
BARBARA: Look, Ian, the point is, it's happened. 
IAN: Yes, it has. But it's impossible to accept. I know I'm here 
SUSAN: I can't see him anywhere. 
BARBARA: He can't be far away. I had a feeling just now as if we were being watched. Grandfather. 
(The Doctor is lighting his pipe when the primitive man attacks. The Doctor cries out) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
IAN: Come on! 
(They run to where the Doctor was gathering his samples, and find his bag on the ground) 
IAN: Look. 
SUSAN: What is it? 
BARBARA: Some of his things. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, where are you? 
IAN: Susan, don't panic. 
SUSAN: I must find him. 
IAN: Susan. 
SUSAN: I must see. 
IAN: Well, be careful then. 
BARBARA: Ian, look. 
IAN: (broken Geiger counter) It's not much good any more. 
BARBARA: Well, maybe he saw something and went off to investigate. 
IAN: Leaving this? (his hat) 
BARBARA: Well, what do you think happened? 
IAN: I don't know. Perhaps he was excited and went off to investigate something as you suggest, but. He may have been taken. 
SUSAN: I can't see him. I can't find him anywhere. There's not a sign of him. 
IAN: Calm down, Susan. 
BARBARA: Susan, don't worry. What's the matter? 
SUSAN: It's his notes. He'd never leave his notebook. It's too important to him. It's got the key codes of all the machines in the ship. It's got notes of everywhere we've been to. Something terrible has happened to him, I know it has. We must find him. 
BARBARA: Susan, Susan. We'll find him, I promise you. He can't be far away. 
IAN: What's on the other side of those rocks? 
SUSAN: There's a line of trees. There's a gap in them. There might be a path on the other side. 
IAN: (gathering up the Doctor's things) All right, we'll try there first. Come on. Strange. 
BARBARA: What? 
IAN: This sand. It's cold. It's nearly freezing.

[Cave]

(The children are playing hunting, with one of them under a leopard's skin) 
HORG: Kal says, where he comes from, he's often seen men make fire. 
ZA: Kal is a liar. 
HORG: He says Orb will soon show him how it is done. 
ZA: All his tribe died in the last cold. If he had not found us, he would have died too. 
HUR: What else did he say? 
HORG: He says Orb only shows the secret to the leader. 
ZA: I am leader. Orb will show me. I am the son of the great firemaker, but he does not show me how to put flames into the sticks. Kal comes. I do not kill him. I let him eat with us and sleep in our caves. I will have to spill some blood and make people bow to me. 
(There's a commotion as the Doctor is brought in and laid across a large rock) 
ZA: This is a strange creature. 
KAL: Is Za, son of the firemaker, afraid of an old man? When will Za make fire come from his hands? 
ZA: When Orb decides it. 
KAL: Orb is for strong men. Orb has sent me this creature to make fire come from his fingers. I have seen it. Inside, he's full of fire. The smoke comes from his mouth. 
ZA: As lies come out of yours. He wears strange skins. 
KAL: Za is afraid. There was a strange tree. The creature was in it. Za would have run away had he seen it. 
ZA: Silence! 
KAL: When I saw fire come from his fingers I remembered Za, son of the firemaker. And when the cold comes, you will all die if you wait for Za to make fire for you. I, Kal, am a true leader. We fought like the tiger and the bear. My strength was too much for him. He lay down to sleep. And I, Kal, carried him here to make fire for you. 
ZA: Why do you listen to Kal? 
HORG: Za has many good skins. He has forgotten what the cold is like. 
ZA: Tomorrow, I kill many bears. You all have warm skins. 
HORG: I say tomorrow you will rub your hands together and hold them to the dry sticks and ask Orb to send you fire. And the bears will stay warm in their own skins. 
ZA: What I say I will do, I will do. 
KAL: The firemaker is dead. You all carry dry sticks with you. But tonight, I make them burn. I am leader. 
HUR: The creature has opened its eyes. 
DOCTOR: Where's my, where. 
KAL: Do you want fire, or do you want to die in the cold? 
ALL: Fire! Fire! 
KAL: When it's cold, the tiger comes to our caves again at night. Za will give you to the tiger. Za will give you to the cold. Za rubs his hands and waits for Orb to remember him. My creature can make fire come from his fingers. I have seen it. But I, Kal, brought him here. The creature is mine. 
ZA: He's just an old man in strange skins. Kal has been with us too long. It is time he died. 
HORG: I say there is truth in both of you. Za speaks truth, but fire cannot live in men. And Kal speaks the truth that we die without fire. 
HUR: Will my father listen to a woman? If this old man can make fire come from his fingers, let us see it now. 
ZA: I say what is to be done here, not old men and women. 
KAL: Za tries to talk like his father, the firemaker. Za does not want to see fire made. But I, Kal, am not afraid of fire. I will make my creature make fire. 
(The Doctor sits up) 
ZA: I will take him to the Cave of Skulls and he will tell me the secret! 
DOCTOR: I can make fire for you. Let me go and I'll make all the fire you want. You don't have to be afraid of me. I'm an old man. How can an old man like me harm any of you? 
ZA: What does he say? 
HORG: Fire? He says he can make fire for us. 
KAL: He makes it for me and I give you fire. I am firemaker. 
ZA: He will make it for me. 
DOCTOR: (searching his pockets) My matches. Where are they? I must get back. Must get back to the ship. 
KAL: Kal's creature, he makes fire only for Kal. 
DOCTOR: Take me back to my ship and I will make fire for you. All the fire you want. 
ZA: This is more of your lies. The old man cannot make fire. 
KAL: There was a tree and the creature came from in it. And the fire, it came out of his fingers. 
ZA: You want to be strong like Za, son of the great firemaker. You all heard him say that there would be fire. There is no fire. Za does not tell you lies. He does not say, I will do this thing, and then not do it. He does not say, I will make you warm, and then leave you to the dark. He does not say, I will fight away the tiger with fire, and then let him come to you in the dark. Do you want a liar for your chief? 
ALL: No! 
KAL: Make fire. Make fire. 
HUR: You are trapped in your own lies, Kal. 
ZA: Great chief who is afraid of nothing. Oh great Kal, save us from the cold. Save us from the tiger. 
KAL: Make fire. Make fire come from your fingers as I saw you. 
DOCTOR: I have no matches. I cannot make fire. I cannot make fire! 
ZA: Let the old man die. And we'll watch the great Kal as he kills his strong enemy. 
KAL: Make fire! Make fire! Or I kill you now! 
ZA: Or we'll keep them and make them hunt for us. It's good to have someone to laugh at! 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
(Susan, Ian and Barbara are quickly overpowered) 
DOCTOR: If he dies, there will be no fire. 
(Kal is fascinated by Barbara) 
MOTHER: Kill her. Kill her. 
ZA: Wait. You cannot kill all our enemies. When Orb gives fire back to the sky, let him look down on them. Then that is when they die, and Orb will give us fire again. Take them to the Cave of Skulls. 
SUSAN: No! Grandfather! 
DOCTOR: All right. 
(Hur goes to Za, and her father tries to pull her back) 
ZA: The woman is mine. 
HORG: My daughter is for the leader of the tribe. 
ZA: Yes, the woman is mine. 
HORG: I do not like what has happened. 
ZA: Old men never like new things to happen. 
HORG: I was a great leader of many men. 
ZA: Many men, yes. They all dies when Orb left the sky and the great cold was on the ground. And Orb will give me fire again. To me. Not to you. Just as you will give me her. 
HUR: Za will be a strong leader of many men. If you give me to him, he will remember and always give you meat. 
MOTHER: There were leaders before there was fire. Fire will kill us all in the end. You should have killed the four strangers. Kill them. 
ZA: I have said we will wait until Orb shines again. Then they die.

[Cave of Skulls]

(so named because of the large number of skeletons scattered around) 
(The four are bound hand and foot) 
IAN: Are you all right? Did they hurt you? 
BARBARA: No. Ian, I'm frightened. 
IAN: Try and hang on. 
BARBARA: But how are we going to get out of this? 
DOCTOR: We should use our cunning. I hope you can get yourself free, Chesterton. I can't. The stench in here. The stench. I'm sorry. It's all my fault. I'm desperately sorry. 
SUSAN: Don't blame yourself, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Look at that. Look at it. (skulls) 
IAN: They're all the same. They've been split open.

Episode Three - The Forest Of Fear

DOCTOR: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, it's all my fault. I'm desperately sorry. 
SUSAN: Oh, don't blame yourself, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Look at those. Look at them. (the skulls) 
IAN: Yes, they're all the same. They've been split wide open. 
(In the main cave, the tribe sleep. The old woman gets up and takes a flint hand axe. Meanwhile, in the cave of skulls, the group are trying to free themselves) 
SUSAN: I've found another piece with a rough edge. 
IAN: Thank you. 
(Ian is sawing at Barbara's bindings with pieces of flint) 
IAN: It's no good, it keeps crumbling. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's hopeless, hopeless. Even if we do get free, we shall never move that stone. 
IAN: There's air coming in here from somewhere. 
BARBARA: Yes, there is. I can feel it on my face. 
IAN: It may only be a small opening. Don't count on it. 
DOCTOR: Well you obviously are. 
IAN: Of course I am. Any hope is better than none. Don't just lie there criticising us. Do something. Help us all to get out of here. Oh, this stone's no good. 
BARBARA: Well, don't give up, Ian. Please. 
IAN: Oh, all right. 
DOCTOR: No, no, don't waste time. Try those bones, they may be. They're sharper, perhaps. 
IAN: That's a good idea. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, I knew you'd think of something. 
DOCTOR: We must all take it in turns and try and cut his hands free. 
IAN: Surely we should get the girls free? 
DOCTOR: No, no, we've got to free you first. You're the strongest, and you may have to defend us. 
IAN: All right. 
(later) 
DOCTOR: Susan, you have a go. My arms are tired. 
SUSAN: All right. 
DOCTOR: And don't think of failing. 
BARBARA: What? 
DOCTOR: Well, try and remember, if you can, how you and the others found your way here. Concentrate on that please. 
BARBARA: Yes, yes, I'll try. You're trying to help me. 
DOCTOR: Fear makes companions of all of us. That's right. 
BARBARA: I never thought once you were afraid. 
DOCTOR: Fear is with all of us, and always will be. Just like that other sensation that lives with it. 
BARBARA: What's that? 
DOCTOR: Your companion referred to it. Hope. Hope, that's right. 
(In the main cave, Hur wakes Za and mimes that the old woman has gone with his weapon. They go after her with an axe)
(The old woman breaks through some brush into the cave of skulls. Susan screams) 
MOTHER: You will not make fire.

[Outside the cave]

ZA: Now tell me. 
HUR: I saw the old woman take your knife. 
ZA: Why did you let her? She's old, you could have held her. 
HUR: Why did she take it? 
ZA: She has gone into the forest. 
HUR: No. She's going to kill the strangers. 
ZA: Did she say this? 
HUR: No, but she took your knife. She is afraid of fire. 
ZA: You should have stopped her. 
HUR: Kal was in the cave. Leaders are awake when others sleep. The strange tribe will not be able to show you how to make fire if the old woman kills them. 
ZA: If I stop her from killing them, they will give fire to me. And not to Kal. The woman could not have got into the cave. The great stone is still there. Why do you tell me this? 
(He pushes Hur over and threatens her with his axe) 
HUR: No! No! 
(Then they hear voices) 
ZA: The old woman is talking to them.

[Cave of Skulls]

MOTHER: I will set you free if you will go away and not make fire. Fire will bring trouble and death to the tribe. 
DOCTOR: There will be no fire.

[Outside the cave]

(Za and Hur strain at the big stone) 
HUR: No, we cannot move the great stone. 
ZA: The old woman is talking to them. I will move it.

[Cave of Skulls]

(The old woman has freed our travellers) 
MOTHER: Hurry, hurry. You must go across the tuft and into the trees. 
IAN: Yes. 
(They get away, but the old woman is too slow. Za grabs her from the opening) 
HUR: She set them free! 
MOTHER: They would have made fire. They would have made fire! No. 
(The old woman tries to stop Za from going after them. He knocks her down) 
ZA: They have gone into the night. 
HUR: They have taken fire with them. 
ZA: The beasts will kill them. They will kill us if we follow. 
HUR: Now, you are leader. You are as strong as the beasts. You will be stronger still when you know how fire is made. Stronger than Kal.

[Forest]

(Barbara leads the way, with Susan, Ian then the Doctor trying to keep up) 
DOCTOR: Stop. Just a minute, let me get my 
IAN: We can't stop here. 
DOCTOR: Just a moment. 
IAN: Look, we've got to go further on. 
DOCTOR: I know. I know that. But I must get. Breathe. I must breathe. 
IAN: Try. Try. I shall have to carry you. 
DOCTOR: There's no need for that. Don't be so childish. I'm not senile. Just let me get my breath for a moment. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather, come on. 
DOCTOR: Yes. I'm not so young, you know. 
BARBARA: Are you sure this is the right way? 
IAN: Yes, I think so. 
BARBARA: I can't remember. I simply can't remember. 
IAN: We're free, Barbara. Think about that. Free. 
BARBARA: Yes. Yes. 
(But the sounds of nocturnal hunters and prey alarm them. Further on, Susan is helping the Doctor) 
SUSAN: I'm sure I remember this place. But we didn't come round it, we went across it. 
BARBARA: Yes, there was a sort of trail. 
IAN: If that's true, we must be quite near the ship. How are you feeling? 
DOCTOR: I'm all right. Don't keep on looking upon me as the weakest link of the party. 
(Barbara sees something scary) 
IAN: What's the matter? 
BARBARA: I don't know. I saw something. Over there in the bushes. 
DOCTOR: What nonsense. 
BARBARA: The bushes moved. I saw them. I saw them! Oh, we're never going to get out of this awful place! Never! Never! Never! 
IAN: Barbara. 
SUSAN: What do you think it could have been, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Oh, sheer nonsense, child. Imagination. 
BARBARA: We'll die in this place. 
IAN: Barbara, no we won't. We're going to get back to the ship and then we'll be safe. 
BARBARA: Oh, Ian, what's happening to us? 
IAN: Look, Barbara, we got out of the cave, didn't we? 
SUSAN: I'm so cold. 
DOCTOR: I'm hot with all this exertion. 
IAN: We'll rest for a couple of minutes. 
SUSAN: Oh, good. Is there any chance of them following us? 
DOCTOR: I expect so. 
IAN: Yes, that's why I don't want to stop here too long. 
DOCTOR: Do you think I want to? 
IAN: No. We'll change the order. You and Susan go in front, Barbara and I'll bring up the rear. Susan seems to remember the way better than any of us. 
DOCTOR: You seem to have elected yourself leader of this little party. 
IAN: There isn't time to vote on it. 
DOCTOR: Just so long as you understand I won't follow your orders blindly. 
IAN: If there were only two of us, you could find your own way back to the ship. 
DOCTOR: Aren't you a tiresome young man! 
IAN: And you're a stubborn old man. But you will lead, the girls in between, and I'll bring up the rear. Because that's the safest way. Barbara was probably right. I thought we heard something when we stopped back there. 
DOCTOR: Oh, sheer imagination. 
IAN: Why are you so confident about it? 
DOCTOR: I won't allow myself to be frightened out of my wits by mere shadows, that's all. 
IAN: All right. 
(Hur and Za are tracking them) 
HUR: Look, there is a branch broken. 
ZA: They have strange feet. 
HUR: They wear skins on their feet. 
ZA: There are marks here. 
HUR: They've gone this way. 
(Animals call) 
ZA: It was wrong to do this. We should not have followed them. 
HUR: We cannot turn back now. 
(Further on, at the resting place) 
IAN: I think we'd better get going. Doctor, will you lead? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes. 
IAN: Come on, Barbara. 
(But almost immediately, she falls over a dead boar, and screams. Za hears it.) 
IAN [OC]: Barbara, Barbara. 
ZA: Down here. That was one of the women. 
SUSAN: A dead animal. 
DOCTOR: It must have just been killed. By a larger animal, too. 
IAN: Shush. Shush. That must be them. They followed us. Quick, quick. Over there. 
(The four hide, and Hur and Za enter) 
IAN: Keep down, and not a sound. 
ZA: Wait. There is danger. I will go. 
(We don't actually see it, of course, but Za gets attacked by whatever killed the boar) 
IAN: Quick, now's our chance. Let's get away. Run! 
BARBARA: Look at them. We can't just leave them! I don't care what they've done. 
IAN: Barbara. Barbara, come on. 
BARBARA: I think he's dead. There isn't any danger. 
IAN: Barbara, for heaven's sake. 
BARBARA: No. 
SUSAN: I'm going too. 
DOCTOR: Susan! You stay here with me. 
SUSAN: No, Grandfather. We can't leave them. 
DOCTOR: Silence! We're going back to the ship. 
SUSAN: No! 
DOCTOR: What are you doing? They must be out of their minds. 
(Za is badly wounded, and Hur is crying) 
HUR: No, keep away. 
IAN: Let me look at him. 
HUR: No. 
IAN: I am your friend. You understand? Friend. I want to help him. 
HUR: Friend? 
IAN: I want water. 
HUR: Water. 
IAN: Go and fetch some water for his wounds. 
HUR: Water is there. 
BARBARA: Please, show me. Give me your handkerchief. 
IAN: Here you are. 
SUSAN: Is he all right? 
IAN: I think so. He must have buried his axe head in the animal. Thank you. 
(Barbara and Ian bathe his wounds) 
HUR: Water comes out of the skin! 
IAN: Yes. I think most of this is the animal's blood. 
SUSAN: Good. 
BARBARA: There's a scar on the side of his head. 
IAN: Well, we've lost our chance of getting away. Your flat must be littered with stray cats and dogs. 
BARBARA: These are human beings, Ian. 
IAN: Yes, I know. 
DOCTOR: What exactly do you think you're doing? 
IAN: Have you got any antiseptic in the ship? 
SUSAN: Yes, lots. 
DOCTOR: One minute ago we were trying desperately to get away from these savages. 
IAN: All right, now we're helping them. You're a doctor, do something. 
DOCTOR: I'm not a doctor of medicine. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, we can make friends with them. 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't be ridiculous, child. 
BARBARA: Why? You treat everybody and everything as something less important than yourself. 
DOCTOR: You're trying to say that everything you do is reasonable, and everything I do is inhuman. Well, I'm afraid your judgement's at fault, Miss Wright, not mine. Haven't you realised if these two people can follow us, any of these people can follow us? The whole tribe might descend upon us at any moment. 
HUR: The tribe is asleep. 
DOCTOR: And what about the old woman who cut our bonds? You understand? 
IAN: He's right. We're too exposed here. We'll make a stretcher and carry him. 
DOCTOR: You're not going to take him back to the ship? 
IAN: Take your coat off, Barbara. Susan, try and find me two poles. Long ones, fairly straight. 
BARBARA: The old woman won't give us away. She helped. 
DOCTOR: Do you think so? These people have logic and reason, have they? Can't you see their minds change as rapidly as night and day? She's probably telling the whole tribe at this very moment.

[Cave of Skulls]

KAL: The creatures. Where? Where? 
MOTHER: Gone. 
KAL: The great stone. They could not move it. 
MOTHER: Za moved it. 
KAL: Za has gone with them? 
MOTHER: Za and Hur went after them. 
KAL: There were skins around their hands and their feet. They could not move. Za helped them to get free? They're gone with Za to show him fire? 
MOTHER: They won't make fire. There won't be fire any more. 
KAL: Old woman, you helped them.

[Forest]

IAN: It's not going to work like this. What can we do? 
HUR: No! He's mine. 
SUSAN: I was only trying to help. 
IAN: She doesn't understand, Susan. She's jealous of you. 
HUR: I don't understand what you are doing. You are like a mother with a child. Why do you not kill? 
IAN: How can we explain to her? She doesn't understand kindness, friendship. 
BARBARA: We will make him well again. We will teach you how to make fire. In return, you show us the way back to our cave. 
ZA: Listen to them. They do not kill. 
IAN: Come on. Let's get on with this stretcher. Let's try the sleeves inside. That's it. 
ZA: Water. 
HUR: Water. 
IAN: How about giving us a hand, Doctor? 
SUSAN: He's always like this if he doesn't get his own way. 
BARBARA: The old woman won't give us away. And now that we've got these two on our side, we should get back to the ship. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
(The Doctor picks up a stone, and Ian grabs his arm) 
DOCTOR: Get your hand off me. 
IAN: What are you doing? 
DOCTOR: Well, I, I was going to get him to draw our way back to the Tardis. 
IAN: We've been too long as it is. Is the stretcher ready? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: Right, you take one end of it. 
DOCTOR: You don't expect me to carry him, do you? 
IAN: Do you want the women to do the job for you? 
DOCTOR: Oh, very well. 
IAN: Right, now move him over very carefully. Now, back again, gently. 
(Za ends up on the stretcher, groaning) 
IAN: Good. Right, now, Susan, you get in front with her.

[Cave]

KAL: They have gone. Za and Hur have gone with them and we must go after them. 
HORG: Hur would not help them to get away. 
KAL: She has gone with them. 
HORG: The old woman sleeps in the cave too, and she has gone. 
KAL: The old woman is in the Cave of Skulls. 
HORG: Hur would not go with them! 
KAL: Ask the old woman. She will tell what is done.

[Cave of Skulls]

KAL: She will tell. 
(But the old woman is dead) 
KAL: My eyes tell me what has happened. As they do when I sleep and I see things. Za and Hur came to free them, and find a way to make fire. The old woman saw them. Za killed old woman. 
HORG: The old woman is dead. It must have been as your eyes said it was. 
KAL: Za has gone with them, taking them to their cave. Za takes away fire. Now I, Kal, lead. Go!

[Forest]

IAN: Hold the branches back, Susan. 
SUSAN: The Tardis! There's the Tardis! 
(And there's the tribes people with spears too) 
IAN: Back! Back! Go back. 
(But Kal blocks their retreat)

Episode Four - The Firemaker

[Forest]

IAN: Back. Get back.

[Cave]

HORG: They are coming. 
(The stretcher is put down and the travellers dragged away) 
KAL: Za and the woman went with them. I, Kal, stop them. 
HUR: They saved Za from death near the stream. 
KAL: They set them free from the Cave of Skulls and went with them. 
HUR: The old woman cut them free. 
KAL: Za is so weak a woman speaks for him. 
HUR: It was the old woman. She showed them a new way out of the Cave of Skulls. 
KAL: The old woman does not speak. She does not say she did this or did that. The old woman is dead. Za killed the old woman. 
HUR: No! 
KAL: Za killed the old woman with his knife. 
HUR: No. 
KAL: Here. Here is the knife he killed her with. 
DOCTOR: This knife has no blood on it. I said, this knife has no blood on it. 
KAL: It is a bad knife. It does not show the things it does. 
DOCTOR: It is a finer knife than yours. 
KAL: I, Kal, say it is a bad knife. 
DOCTOR: This knife can cut and stab. I have never seen a better knife. 
KAL: I will show you one. 
(Kal pulls out his flint knife) 
DOCTOR: This knife shows what it has done. There is blood on it. (to Za) Who killed the old woman? 
ZA: I did not kill her. 
DOCTOR: (to Kal) You killed the old woman. 
KAL: Yes! She set them free. She set them free. She did this. I, Kal, killed her. 
DOCTOR: Is this your strong leader? One who kills your old women? He is a bad leader. He will kill you all. Yes, all. (to Ian) Follow my example. 
(The Doctor picks up some stones and throws them at Kal) 
DOCTOR: Drive him out. Out. 
IAN: Yes, drive him out. He killed the old woman. 
(The tribe start pelting him with stones) 
TRIBE: Drive him out. 
(Kal leaves, and Za is on his feet again) 
IAN: Remember, Kal is not stronger than the whole tribe. 
ZA: Kal is no longer one of this tribe. We will watch for him. We will all fight Kal if he comes back. We will watch for him. Take them to the Cave of Skulls. 
IAN: Take us back to the desert and we will make fire for you. 
ZA: The great stone will close one place, and you will stand by another I will show you. Take them. 
DOCTOR: Don't struggle. 
ZA: They are inside the cave. You see them come out, kill them.

[Cave of Skulls]

(They are not tied up this time) 
DOCTOR: This place is evil.

[Cave]

ZA: Tell me what happened after I fought the beast in the forest. 
HUR: You were stronger than the beast. It took away your axe in its head. You lay on the earth. I believed you were dead. 
ZA: Tell me what they did. 
HUR: The young man of their tribe came towards you, but he did not kill. He told me his name. 
ZA: Name? 
HUR: His name is Friend. 
ZA: They come from the other side of the mountains. 
HUR: Nothing lives there. 
ZA: There are other tribes there. This new tribe must come from there. Tell me more of what happened. 
HUR: I did not understand them. Their hands moved slowly and their faces were not fierce. It was like a mother guarding her baby. 
ZA: They are a new tribe. Not like us. Not like Kal. The young one, whose name is Friend, spoke to me. 
HUR: Do you remember it? 
ZA: He said, Kal is not stronger than the whole tribe. 
HUR: I do not understand. 
ZA: The whole tribe drove Kal away with the stones. The whole tribe can collect more fruit than one. The whole tribe can kill a beast where one of the tribe would die. 
HUR: Do you think they come from Orb? 
ZA: No. They are a tribe who know how fire is made, but they do not want to tell us. 
HUR: Then you will not kill them? 
ZA: Horg says the leader must know how fire is made. I do not want to be driven into the forest like Kal. I must make fire, or they must die, as the old men say. I will speak with him. I must hear more things to remember. The leader would have things to remember.

[Cave of Skulls]

(Ian is putting together the ingredients of a camp fire. Susan finds a stone)
SUSAN: I think this is what you want, Mister Chesterton. 
IAN: Thank you. 
BARBARA: Here are some leaves, and some dead grass. 
IAN: Yes, well spread them around the hole. Don't put them inside. I hope this is going to work. Now, spread them around a bit more. Yes, that's it. 
(He's got twine around one twig, to twist another twig between two flat stones for friction)

[Outside the second exit]

ZA: (to guard) I will speak with them. You wait here. 
(Kal is watching, hidden)

[Cave of Skulls]

SUSAN: I can smell something. 
BARBARA: Yes, so can I. 
SUSAN: It's burning! It's burning! 
IAN: It's a long way off yet. 
ZA: What is this? 
DOCTOR: We are making fire. 
ZA: You are called Friend? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Don't stop. 
ZA: Hur said you were called Friend. I am called Za. You are the leader of your tribe? 
IAN: No. He is our leader. 
SUSAN: Are you going to set us free? 
ZA: The tribe say you are from Orb and when you are returned to him on the stone of death, we will have fire again. 
BARBARA: But that's not true. 
ZA: I think you are from the other side of the mountains. If you show me how to make fire, I will take you back to the foot of the mountains. If you do not show me, I cannot stop you dying on the old stone. 
IAN: Put some more leaves and grass round it. I think it's beginning to work. 
DOCTOR: Do you understand? We are making fire for you. 
ZA: I am watching. 
IAN: The whole tribe should be watching. Everyone should know how to make fire. 
ZA: Everyone cannot be leader. 
IAN: No, that's perfectly true. But in our tribe, the firemaker is the least important man. 
ZA: Ha! I do not believe this. 
DOCTOR: He is the least important because we can all make fire. 
SUSAN: I hope he doesn't make Grandfather prove that. 
IAN: Look, I think it's beginning to work. Susan, Barbara, blow gently. That's it! 
SUSAN: We've done it. 
IAN: Yes. 
ZA: Fire. Fire.

[Cave]

HORG: Orb strikes the old stone and Za does not bring them out. We have no meat, and no fruit from the trees, and no roots. Za is no leader. 
HUR: Za would kill you if he could hear you. He's talking now with them in the Cave of Skulls. You should lie on the old stone until your blood runs into the earth. 
HORG: Za is letting them go away, just as the old woman set them free. 
HUR: Za told one of them to watch and guard them until he came out of the Cave of Skulls.

[Cave of Skulls]

(Kal kills the guard and goes in. He sees the fire, and starts swinging at Za with his axe. Za uses a thick branch to defend himself and breaks Kal's axe with it. Finally, Za gets the upper hand and ends it by smashing Kal's head with a big stone.)

[Cave]

HORG: Orb is above us and there is no fire. Bring them out from the Cave of Skulls and Za as well. Come on.

[Cave of Skulls]

(Ian lights a branch from the fire) 
IAN: Take this, and show it to your tribe. 
ZA: You, stay here. 
IAN: We will come with you. 
ZA: No, you'll stay here. 
IAN: I will come with you. 
DOCTOR: Give him a chance. Give him a chance. Let him show the tribe fire, establish himself as leader, then he'll let us go. 
IAN: But we ought to go with him now.

[Cave]

ZA: Fire. 
TRIBE: Fire. 
ZA: Kal is dead. I give you fire. I am leader. We will give food and water to the new tribe in the Cave of Skulls. 
HORG: There is no meat. 
ZA: I will go into the forest and get meat. 
HORG: Yes. I remember how the meat and fire joined together. 
ZA: Good. Watch the new tribe. They must be here when I return.

[Cave of Skulls]

IAN: It didn't work. They're going to keep us here. 
(Hur enters with some food) 
IAN: Why are you keeping us here? 
HUR: Za has gone into the forest to find meat. There will be more food later. 
BARBARA: But why can't we go outside? 
SUSAN: Please let us go. It's terrible in here. 
HUR: Za is leader. 
SUSAN: But we helped you. We gave you fire. 
HUR: We have fire now. 
(Hur leaves) 
IAN: Yes. And I was the fool who gave it to you. Why didn't I wait? 
BARBARA: Well at least we're alive. We wouldn't be if we hadn't given them fire. 
(Later, Ian is sleeping) 
BARBARA: Ian. 
SUSAN: They brought us some meat. 
BARBARA: And the Doctor found a stone with a hole in it, and they filled it with water. 
IAN: All the comforts of home. 
(Za enters) 
ZA: The animal was hard to kill. The meat on it is good. They have brought you fruit and water has been put into a stone. Is this the stone? Has anyone hurt you? 
DOCTOR: When are you going to let us go, hmm? 
ZA: You will stay here. I have the meat and I have the stick, and a piece of skin. I can make fire now. Your tribe and my tribe will join together. 
IAN: We don't want to stay here. 
ZA: Why? There is no better place the other side of the mountains. Do not try to leave here. 
(Za leaves with their water) 
DOCTOR: Quench the fire. Take the fire away from them. Scaring them, somehow. 
SUSAN: (putting a skull on top of a burning brand) Hey, Grandfather, look! It's almost alive. 
IAN: Not alive, Susan. Almost dead. We're going to make four torches. We'll find the sticks. And we'll use the fat from the meat. And then 
SUSAN: And then? 
IAN: And then, to all intents and purposes, we're going to die. 
(The tribe continue to feast) 
IAN: When I give the sign. 
(Hur enters with more meat, sees the lit skulls and screams. The rest of the tribe come in and cower too) 
SUSAN: What are they? 
(With the tribe distracted, our travellers make a run for it through the forest. Finally one of the sticks falls over) 
ZA: Look. It is nothing but fire and the bones of the dead. They have gone! While we look at their fire, they have gone! 
HUR: Into the night. The dark will hide them. 
ZA: With fire, it is day. 
(So the men get themselves torches and the chase is on)

[Desert]

(Our intrepid time travellers get inside the Tardis before the tribe arrive.)

[Tardis]

IAN: Come on, Doctor, get us off! Get us off! 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
(The Tardis takes off as the spears fly towards it) 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's matching up. 
SUSAN: We're beginning to land. 
DOCTOR: Oh, how I wish. 
IAN: Have you taken us back to our own time? 
DOCTOR: You know I can't do that. Please be reasonable. 
IAN: What? 
BARBARA: Please, you must take us back. You must. 
DOCTOR: You see, this isn't operating properly. Or rather, the code is still a secret. When you put the right data, precise information to a second of the beginning of a journey, then we can fix a destination, but I had no data at my disposal. 
BARBARA: Are you saying that you don't know how to work this thing? 
DOCTOR: Well of course I can't. I'm not a miracle worker. 
SUSAN: You can't blame Grandfather. We left the other place too quickly, that's all. 
IAN: Just a minute. Did you try and take us back to our own time? 
DOCTOR: Well, I got you away from that other time, didn't I? 
IAN: That isn't what I asked you. 
DOCTOR: It's the only way I can answer you, young man. Now. Now we shall see. 
(The monitor shows strange trees) 
DOCTOR: It could be anywhere. Dear, dear, dear, dear. It's no help to us at all. Well, I suggest before we go outside and explore, let us clean ourselves up. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. 
DOCTOR: Now what does the radiation read, Susan? 
SUSAN: It's reading normal, Grandfather. 
(But after they walk away, the needle goes up into the Danger Zone) 

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Well, I suggest before we go outside and explore, let us clean ourselves up. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. 
DOCTOR: Now what does the radiation read, Susan? 
SUSAN: It's reading normal, Grandfather. 
(But after they walk away, the needle goes up into the Danger Zone)

[Forest]

BARBARA: There's been a forest fire. Everything's sort of white and ashen. 
IAN: Funny mist. 
DOCTOR: The heat must have been indescribable. Look at this soil here. Look at it. It's all turn to sand and ashes. Extraordinary. How can shrubs or trees grow in soil like that, hmm? 
IAN: Something else that's strange. There's quite a breeze blowing. 
SUSAN: Well? 
IAN: Well, look at the branches and things. 
SUSAN: They don't seem to be moving. 
BARBARA: They're not. They're absolutely still. 
(Ian touches a twig, and it breaks easily) 
IAN: Huh. Like stone, look. Very brittle stone. It crumbles when you touch it. Look. 
DOCTOR: It's petrified. How fascinating, a petrified jungle. Hm. Extraordinary. Yes, I must really investigate that. Couldn't have been heat, then, and age would merely decay. 
SUSAN: What could have caused it, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: I don't know, I don't know, but I intend to find out. 
SUSAN: Well I'm coming too. 
(The Doctor and Susan go exploring) 
BARBARA: Ian, where are we? 
IAN: I don't know. 
BARBARA: Well why doesn't he take us back? 
IAN: I'm not sure that he can. 
BARBARA: What, ever? 
IAN: I hate it as much as you. I'm just as afraid. But what can we do? 
BARBARA: Well, we could at least stay near the ship. 
IAN: The ship's no good without him. We'd better keep an eye on him. He seems to have a knack of getting himself into trouble. 
BARBARA: You think there's any danger? 
IAN: Not necessarily. 
BARBARA: But don't be too complacent. No, you're right, I suppose. I just wish 
IAN: We'll be all right. 
BARBARA: Yes. Well, I suppose we'd better make sure he doesn't fall down and break a leg. Don't you ever think he deserves something to happen to him? 
IAN: Yes. 
(Further on, Susan has made a discovery) 
SUSAN: Oh Grandfather, look! It's a flower. A perfect flower. Well, it's even kept some of it's colour. 
DOCTOR: Yes, very pretty, very pretty. Hm. 
SUSAN: Hey, look. Look what I've found. 
IAN: Oh, that's beautiful. 
SUSAN: Isn't it? I'm going to try and pick it and keep it all in one piece. 
IAN: Oh, be careful. It'll be very fragile. There we are. 
SUSAN: Beautiful. When I get it back to the ship I'm 
BARBARA: Ian! 
SUSAN: going to put it into a glass and 
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: Coming, coming. 
(And he puts the flower in Susan's hands, and it breaks) 
IAN: What is it? What's the matter? 
(Barbara points at a lizard) 
BARBARA: No! 
IAN: It's all right. Like everything else in this place, solid stone. 
BARBARA: It's hideous. 
IAN: Yes, it is. It's also significant. Nothing on Earth could look like this. 
BARBARA: It looks like some sculptor's nightmare. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's certainly alien to anything on your planet. But you're wrong about one thing, Chesterfield. This isn't like everything else. The animal is solidified, certainly, but it's not crumbly stone. It's metal. Yes, it always was. 
IAN: What, even when it was alive? But that's impossible. 
DOCTOR: Why? Can't you imagine an animal unless it's flesh, blood and bone, hmm? No, I tell you this is an entirely different formation. I should say originally it was some pliable metal held together by a magnetic field, or an inner magnetic field, rather, and it may have had the ability to attract it's victims towards it, if they were metal too. 
BARBARA: We're not on Earth, then. 
DOCTOR: No, certainly not. 
IAN: Are you sure? 
DOCTOR: Oh, certain. And you needn't look at me like that, young man. We started this journey far too hurriedly to make any calculations. You know that as well as I do. However, we're alive. 
SUSAN: Hey, Grandfather, look. The jungle ends over there. 
IAN: Try not to be too upset. 
BARBARA: I counted so much on just going back to things I recognise and trust. But here there's nothing to rely on. Nothing. 
IAN: Well, there's me. Barbara, all I ask you to do is believe, really believe, we'll go back. We will, you know. 
BARBARA: I wish I was more like you. I'm afraid I'm a very unwilling adventurer. 
IAN: I'm not exactly reveling in it myself. 
SUSAN: Grandfather's talking about fixing our position by the stars. 
IAN: Good. Where is he? 
SUSAN: Just over there. 
BARBARA: Susan. Don't you have anything in the ship that records the journeys? 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. There's a meter fixed to a great big bank of computers. If you feed it with the right sort of information, it can take over the controls of the ship and deliver you to any place you want to go. 
BARBARA: Then why don't we know where we are? 
SUSAN: Well, it's a question of the right information, you see. I don't say that Grandfather doesn't know how to work the ship, but he's so forgetful, and then he will go off and. Well, he likes to work on his own. 
BARBARA: So I've noticed. 
SUSAN: Anyway, he's only got to do some computations back in the ship and we can move on. 
BARBARA: Well, it can't be too soon for me. 
DOCTOR: Well now, are we ready? 
BARBARA: Oh, Doctor, have you worked out yet how all this happened? 
DOCTOR: No, not really, not really. Whatever it was destroyed everything that was living, but the planet is dead, totally dead. 
IAN: Barbara, Doctor. Over here. 
DOCTOR: What is it, Chesterton? We really must get back to 
(From the edge of the petrified jungle they can see across a plain to a city) 
DOCTOR: Most fascinating. 
BARBARA: A city, a huge city. 
(The Doctor puts on a pair of binocular glasses) 
IAN: Well, Doctor? Can you see anything? Any sign of life? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no sign of life. No, just buildings. Magnificent buildings, I 
SUSAN: Oh, let me have a look. It's fabulous. Here, you have a look. 
(Barbara takes her turn) 
IAN: What do you think, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I don't know, I don't know. Whatever it was destroyed the vegetation here certainly hasn't damaged the city. But there's no sign of life. No movement, no light, no. No, I shall know more about it when I've been down there. 
BARBARA: Down there? Oh, no. We're going back to the ship. 
DOCTOR: Now, don't be ridiculous. That city down there is a magnificent subject for study, and I don't intend to leave here until I've thoroughly investigated it. 
IAN: Well it's too late to talk about it now. It's getting dark. We'll discuss it when we get back to the ship. 
SUSAN: Yes. Whatever you decide, it's too late to get down there now. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, all right then. But I assure you I'm determined to study that place. 
IAN: You can do what you like, as long as you don't endanger the rest of us. 
DOCTOR: Very well then. I shall look at it myself, alone. 
IAN: You're the only one who can operate the ship. I'm afraid I can't let you do that, Doctor. Your glasses. 
(Walking back through the jungle) 
IAN: I think this is the way we came. 
(Susan stops to pick another flower, then gets frightened) 
SUSAN: Who's there? 
(Someone or something touches her shoulder. She screams and Ian goes back to find her) 
IAN: All right, Susan, it's all right. You're safe now.

[Tardis]

BARBARA: Did Susan tell you what frightened her? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. She's convinced that someone touched her, and I tried to make her see it wasn't possible but I'm afraid she wouldn't listen to me. I wonder, would you have a talk with her? 
BARBARA: Yes, of course I will. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you know, sometimes I find the gulf between Susan's age and mine makes difficult understanding between us. 
BARBARA: I'll see what I can do. 
DOCTOR: Oh, would you? Thank you, thank you very much. I'd be grateful. 
(Susan is sitting at a table) 
BARBARA: Hello. 
SUSAN: Hello. 
BARBARA: What are you doing? 
SUSAN: Just drawing. 
BARBARA: Well, can I see? 
SUSAN: It's the flower I saw in the jungle. 
BARBARA: What happened out there? 
SUSAN: Nothing. 
BARBARA: Well Ian said you were terrified. Well, something must have frightened you. 
SUSAN: It's not that so much. It's just that I'm, I'm fed up no one believes me. 
BARBARA: Believes what? 
SUSAN: Oh, I don't know. 
BARBARA: That there was someone out there and they touched you on the shoulder? 
SUSAN: There was someone there. 
BARBARA: But you didn't see who it was? 
SUSAN: No. It was like that. A light touch on the shoulder. I couldn't have been mistaken. 
BARBARA: Well, I believe you. 
SUSAN: But Grandfather says that it's impossible for anyone to live out there. 
BARBARA: Oh, Susan, it isn't that he doesn't believe you. It's just that he finds it difficult to go against his scientific facts. 
SUSAN: I know. 
BARBARA: Oh, look. Why don't you just try and forget it for the moment? 
SUSAN: For the moment. 
(By a bank of computers in the wall, the Doctor is noting the readings on the screens and dials) 
IAN: What's this one for? I don't know how you make sense of any of this. 
DOCTOR: You're quite right, quite right. 
IAN: Can you find where we are? Well, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh. 
IAN: I was wondering if perhaps you 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, these eternal questions of yours. Do I know where we are, I suppose? 
IAN: Now listen, Doctor, I don't want to argue with you. We're fellow travellers whether we like it or not. But for heaven's sake try and see it from our point of view. You've uprooted us violently from our own lives. You 
DOCTOR: You pushed your way into the ship, young man. 
IAN: All right, all right, I admit it. A small part of the blame is ours. 
DOCTOR: Oh, small? 
IAN: But naturally we're anxious. What are we going to do? Can we live here? What do we eat? There are millions of questions. 
DOCTOR: A very good idea. I'm hungry. 
(Susan it putting drops into a glass of water. Barbara is holding her head) 
DOCTOR: Oh, what's the matter? 
BARBARA: Oh, I've suddenly got this terrible headache. 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear, how irksome for you. Oh, this stuff is very good. This should cure it. Now, not too much, dear, not too much. 
SUSAN: No. Oh, Grandfather. I'm sorry I was so silly just now. Here, try this. 
BARBARA: Thank you. Oh, it's very nice. 
IAN: Let's hope it does you some good. 
(The Doctor is nibbling at something from a machine nearby) 
DOCTOR: Oh, did you want something to eat? What would you like? 
BARBARA: I'd like some bacon and eggs. 
IAN: All right, bacon and eggs. 
DOCTOR: Bacon and eggs. 
IAN: But 
SUSAN: This is fully automatic. 
DOCTOR: Yes, certainly, certainly. J62. 
SUSAN: (turning dials) J62. 
DOCTOR: L6. 
SUSAN: L6. 
IAN: I hope mine doesn't taste of engine grease. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, don't be ridiculous. 
BARBARA: Shall I get plates and things? 
SUSAN: No, there's no need to. 
(The Doctor takes two blocks out of the dispensing slot) 
SUSAN: Eggs and bacon. 
DOCTOR: Bacon and eggs. 
IAN: What, this? 
SUSAN: Go on, try it. 
(They unwrap the blocks and take a small bite) 
DOCTOR: Well? 
IAN: Mm. Not bad. What do you think, Barbara? 
BARBARA: I think it's delicious. 
IAN: My bacon's a bit salty. 
DOCTOR: It shouldn't be. It's English. 
IAN: No, seriously, Doctor, this is remarkable. I mean, one bite and I taste the bacon, another and I taste the egg. How do you do it? 
DOCTOR: Food has component parts, dear boy. Flavours are rather like primary colours, you know, you blend two to achieve a third, a fourth, etc, etc. 
IAN: Well, I think it's wonderful. 
SUSAN: How's your headache now? 
BARBARA: Oh, it's much better. I don't usually get them at all. 
DOCTOR: Susan, would you like something to eat? 
SUSAN: No thanks, I'm not hungry. 
DOCTOR: Oh, child, that's unusual. I do hope your affects outside the ship hasn't affected you too much. 
SUSAN: No. I think I'll go to bed now, anyway. 
DOCTOR: Right. 
SUSAN: Do you want to know where you can sleep, Miss Wright? 
BARBARA: Oh, yes. 
(They hear a tapping sound) 
IAN: What's that? 
DOCTOR: The scanner. 
SUSAN: There was somebody there. 
(But the scanner just shows the trees) 
IAN: Nothing. Not a thing. 
SUSAN: But something must have made that noise. 
BARBARA: Look, I've had enough of this. Please, can't we get out of here? 
DOCTOR: Ah, but the city. I must see the city. 
BARBARA: But why? 
DOCTOR: I will not be questioned. Uninvited passengers. I didn't invite them to the ship. I shall do what I want to do. 
IAN: Why endanger the rest of us by staying here? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, please. Please. 
(So the Doctor sets the Tardis going, and ducks under the console to remove something) 
BARBARA: Stone trees are all very well, but the next forest I walk through I want them all to be made of wood. 
(The Tardis starts shaking) 
SUSAN: What's the matter? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. The power take-up was rising normally and 
IAN: What's wrong? 
DOCTOR: Oh don't distract me, please. 
SUSAN: Shall I trace it on the fault locator, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you'd better, child. 
SUSAN: (checking a printout) K7. 
DOCTOR: K7? Ah, yes, of course, the fluid link. Yes, yes, yes. Yes. 
(Goes under the console and comes up with the part he took off earlier) 
DOCTOR: Yes, there we are, you see. The end of it's unscrewed itself and the fluid has run out. 
IAN: Have you got a spare? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no need for that. This is easily repaired. All we have to do is refill it. 
IAN: What liquid do you need? 
DOCTOR: Mercury. 
IAN: Mercury. Can I get it for you? 
DOCTOR: No, I'm afraid you can't. We haven't any at all. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: No. 
IAN: Don't you carry a supply? 
DOCTOR: No, it hasn't been necessary. This hasn't happened before. 
IAN: But you must have some somewhere, surely. 
DOCTOR: No, no. We shall have to get some from outside. 
BARBARA: But where? There isn't anything outside because 
IAN: Yes. There's the city. 
DOCTOR: Yes, the city, of course. Of course we're bound to get some mercury there. Yes, we're bound to. Well, I mean, what else can we do, hmm? 
IAN: It seems we have no alternative. We have to go to the city. 
DOCTOR: Yes, indeed. At first light, then? 
(Next day) 
IAN: Well, it's light enough and there doesn't seem to be anything out there. We might as well get started. Oh, and Doctor. Remember we're going to this city to find mercury, and once we've found it we're coming straight back here. Is that clear? 
DOCTOR: Oh, quite so, quite so.

[Forest]

IAN: Well, shall I lead? 
DOCTOR: Yes, by all means. 
IAN: Look. 
(There's a small curved metal object on the ground) 
BARBARA: Don't touch it, it might go off. 
SUSAN: Be careful. 
DOCTOR: What is it, Chesterton? 
IAN: I don't know. Stand back, all of you. 
(He prods it with a long stick, then taps it. It sounds hollow) 
IAN: I think it's all right. A metal box. It's a box of glass phials. Look. 
DOCTOR: Let me see. 
SUSAN: Then there was somebody here last night. They must have dropped them. I knew I was right. 
IAN: Yes. Sorry, Susan. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'd like to run a few tests on those. Susan, would you take these into the ship, please? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Oh, and by the way, did you remember the food supplies? 
SUSAN: Yes. A day's supply for four. That's enough, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, ample, ample. 
IAN: I trust we won't be more than a couple of hours. You ready, Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: Come on, then. Off we go.

[City]

(A very metallic, angular place) 
DOCTOR: Do you mind if I sit down for a minute? I feel a bit exhausted. 
IAN: You all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm just a bit tired. It was a long journey and my legs are rather weak. 
BARBARA: Why don't you rest here? Ian and I will look around and see if we can 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no, I want to look around too. I shall be all right, thank you. 
IAN: I must say, I don't feel too good myself. Look, why don't we get this over with quickly. Look for instruments, gauges, anything like that. Ideally what we want is a laboratory. 
(A door opens) 
BARBARA: Ian, look. 
IAN: Why don't we separate and go different ways and meet back here in say, ten minutes. All right? 
BARBARA: Fine. I'll go this way. (through the door) 
DOCTOR: Would you lend me your arm, would you, Susan? Thank you. 
(Ian finds the sensor to open another door - it's the round things by the side of them) 
(On her travels, Barbara has to duck in the odd-shaped corridor, and she is watched by a remote camera) 
SUSAN: Let's try this one. (the door opens for her) There's no light. 
(Barbara gets shut in by bulkheads closing behind her, but she only notices when she tries to retrace her steps) 
IAN: Ah, there you are. Any luck? 
SUSAN: No. How about you? 
IAN: No, no luck. Barbara should be here by now. Barbara! Barbara! We'll give her a couple of minutes more, and then if she's not back we'll have to go and look for her. 
(Barbara is finally trapped and disappears) 
IAN: We've waited long enough for her. We must go and find her. 
(In another level of the city, Barbara leaves the elevator, and is confronted by a vicious looking sink-plunger being waved by something. She screams)

Episode Two - The Survivors

[City]

(Ian, Susan and the Doctor have gone through the same door as Barbara did earlier) 
IAN: Barbara? Barbara? Barbara? 
(Susan opens another door. It's dark inside) 
SUSAN: Miss Wright? 
(Ian tries another) 
IAN: Barbara? 
SUSAN: Hey, there's a corridor over here. 
IAN: We might as well see where it goes to. Come on. 
DOCTOR: Wait. 
IAN: What's the matter? 
DOCTOR: Listen. 
SUSAN: I can hear a ticking noise. 
DOCTOR: Quiet, child. Now listen. 
IAN: Yes. Over here somewhere. 
DOCTOR: It's stopped now. 
SUSAN: Hey, there it is again. 
IAN: It's coming from in here.

[Room]

IAN Ah, this is more hopeful. We ought to find some mercury here. 
DOCTOR: Measuring equipment. But measuring what? Look here. Look at this drum. The ink's still quite wet. 
IAN: Yes. Hard to imagine what sort of people these are. 
DOCTOR: They're intelligent, anyway. Very intelligent. 
IAN: Yes, but how do they use their intelligence? What form does it take? 
DOCTOR: Oh, as if that matters. What these instruments tell us is that we're in the midst of a very, very advanced civilised society. 
SUSAN: Here it is. The thing that's ticking. It's over here. It's a Geiger counter. 
IAN: But look at the needle! It's past the danger point. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, that explains a lot of things, doesn't it. A jungle turned to stone, the barren soil and the fact that we're not feeling well. 
IAN: Radiation sickness? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm afraid so. The atmosphere here is polluted with a very high level of fallout, and we've been walking around in it completely unprotected. 
IAN: What? But how do you explain the buildings? They're intact. 
DOCTOR: A neutron bomb. Yes. It destroys all human tissue, but leaves the buildings and machinery intact. Yes. 
IAN: What? But how much radiation, and how badly? 
DOCTOR: We need, we need drugs to be treated. 
IAN: But where are we going to find them? 
SUSAN: The Tardis will have to take us to another time and place where we can be cured. 
IAN: But don't you remember? We can't move the ship until we find the mercury for the fluid link! 
DOCTOR: For the fluid link, yes. Yes, I'm afraid I cheated a little on that. I was determined to see the city, but everybody wanted to go on and, well, to avoid arguments, in short, there's nothing wrong with the fluid link. 
SUSAN: What? Grandfather, do you mean to say that you risked leaving the ship just to see this place? 
IAN: You fool. You old fool! 
DOCTOR: Abuse me as much as you like, Chesterton. The point is we need an immediate return to the ship, and I suggest we leave at once. 
IAN: We're not leaving until we've found Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Very well. You may stay and search for her if you wish, but Susan and I are going back to the ship. Now, come along, child. 
IAN: All right, carry on, fine. How far do you think you'll get without this? (the fluid link) 
DOCTOR: Give that to me. 
IAN: Not until we've found Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Give it to me, I say. 
IAN: No! It's time you faced up to your responsibilities. You got us here. Now I'm going to make sure that you get us back. 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, this is 
IAN: We're wasting time. We should be looking for Barbara. 
SUSAN: He's right, Grandfather. We are wasting time. 
DOCTOR: Child, if only you'd think as an adult sometimes. Oh, very well. Let's go then. Let's go.

[City]

(They walk out of the room to be met by a group of sink plungers wielded by evil four foot tall pepper pots) 
DALEK: You will move ahead of us and follow my directions. This way. Immediately. 
(Susan and the Doctor obey, but Ian hesitates) 
DALEK: I said immediately! 
(Ian runs down another corridor) 
DALEK: Fire! 
(A ray hits Ian, he turns from positive black and white to negative white and black, then collapses) 
IAN: My legs! My legs! 
(Susan runs back to help) 
DALEK: Stop! Your legs are paralysed. You will recover shortly unless you force us to use our weapons again. In that case, the condition will be permanent. You two, help him. 
(Susan and the Doctor help Ian up) 
IAN: My legs, my legs. I can't use my legs.

[Detention cell]

DALEK [OC]: Stop here. 
(The door opens and Ian is carried in by Susan and the Doctor) 
BARBARA: Susan! 
SUSAN: Miss Wright! 
IAN: Barbara, thank heaven we've found you. Are you all right? 
BARBARA: Yes. What's the matter? What's happened? 
IAN: Oh, I'm all right. 
SUSAN: He tried to get away and they hurt him. 
BARBARA: Can't you stand up? 
IAN: Not without help. The feeling's coming back, don't worry. 
BARBARA: Come over here. 
IAN: How about you, Barbara? We tried to look for you and then those machines caught us. 
BARBARA: They trapped me in some sort of lift. It seemed to go down for ages. 
IAN: They didn't hurt you? 
BARBARA: No. Ian, what are they? 
IAN: I don't know. Barbara, did you notice anything? I mean, when they were moving you about. Any little thing may help us. 
BARBARA: No, nothing much. They moved me from floor to floor, always in lifts. Where we are now must be miles underground. Well, there wasn't any furniture now I come to think about it. 
IAN: I'm afraid that's not very much help. 
BARBARA: Ian, do you think they really are just machines? 
IAN: What do you mean? 
BARBARA: Well, I was going to say, do you think there's someone inside them? 
(Susan laughs) 
IAN: That's a point. We haven't any idea what's inside them. 
BARBARA: I tried to think of how I could get away from them, but then I began to feel so weak and giddy. It's getting worse now. I think they must have drugged me in some way. 
IAN: It's not that. Barbara, we've got radiation sickness. All of us. The Doctor's pretty badly hit. 
BARBARA: Well, how do you know it's radiation? 
SUSAN: We found a Geiger counter. It seems that all the time we've been in the open, we've been exposed to it. 
BARBARA: Well, what's going to happen to us? 
DOCTOR: Well, unless, unless we get treatment, we shall die. Yes, we shall die.

[Control room]

(The prisoners are being watched on a monitor) 
DALEK 1: Bring in the old man Thal prisoner. Two hundred days ago the radiation count was ninety three. 
DALEK 2: It is now fifty eight. An impressive reduction. 
DALEK 1: It is still enough to destroy. Our prisoners are showing preliminary stages of sickness already. 
DALEK 2: We know the Thals are able to live on the surface. 
DALEK 1: And that they must have found immunity. 
DALEK 2: Perhaps it is a drug. Is it failing them now? Why are these four showing signs of radiation sickness? 
DALEK 1: A few questions will reduce the mystery. 
(The Doctor staggers in) 
DALEK 1: Do not move out of the light. Sit on the floor. 
DALEK 2: You are one of the Thal people? 
DOCTOR: I don't understand you. 
DALEK 1: Why are you suffering from radiation? 
DOCTOR: Why? Because we were not aware of it until it was too late, that's why. 
DALEK 2: No, that is not true. We know the Thals have existed outside our city. 
DALEK 1: The truth is your supply of drugs has failed, and you came into the city to see if you could find more. 
DOCTOR: No, no. Thals? What are you talking about? We're not Thals, or whatever you may call them. Can't you see we're very ill. 
DALEK 1: You and your companions need a drug to stay alive. 
DOCTOR: We have no drugs. (softly) A drug? A drug. The drugs left outside the Tardis. 
DALEK 2: Tardis? He is becoming delirious. I do not understand his words. 
DOCTOR: Listen to me. 
DALEK 1: Stay in the light. 
DOCTOR: My friends and I are travellers. We did find something in the forest near our encampment. They may be the drugs you're referring to. Why not let one of us go and bring the phials here? And under guard, if necessary. 
DALEK 1: We cannot move outside the city. 
DOCTOR: Very well, then. Let one of us go and hold the others until he returns. 
DALEK 1: Providing whoever you send understands the rest of you will be held responsible for his return. 
DOCTOR: He will have our lives in his hands. That is enough. 
DALEK 1: Then we agree. 
DOCTOR: Tell me something about the people, the Thals. 
DALEK 1: Over five hundred years ago there were two races on this planet. We, the Daleks, and the Thals. After the neutronic war, our Dalek forefathers retired into the city, protected my our machines. 
DOCTOR: And the Thals? 
DALEK 1: Most of them perished in the war, but we know that there are survivors. They must be disgustingly mutated, but the fact that they have survived tells us they must have a drug that preserves the life force. 
DOCTOR: And knowing that these mutated creatures exist outside the city, you're willing to send one of us in amongst them? 
DALEK 1: As you say yourself, all your lives depend on it.

[Detention cell]

(Susan and Barbara are helping Ian walk around. Only one leg is currently working) 
BARBARA: Is it any easier? 
IAN: Yes, I think it is. I'm going to try and stand on my own. 
SUSAN: Be careful. 
IAN: I'll be all right. Oh, that's not too bad, is it? 
BARBARA: Why don't you sit down for a minute? 
IAN: No, no, no. I'll be all right. 
(He tries to walk, and falls) 
IAN: No good. 
BARBARA: Come on, sit down. It'll wear off in time. 
IAN: How are you feeling, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Not too good. 
IAN: Susan? 
SUSAN: Well, it doesn't seem to have affected me as much as the rest of you. 
(The Doctor enters) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
IAN: Are you all right? 
SUSAN: What happened? 
DOCTOR: In a moment, child. The phial of drugs left outside the Tardis, remember? 
BARBARA: Yes, what about them? 
DOCTOR: It's possible that they may have been anti-radiation gloves. Drugs. I can't be certain, but it does give us a chance. The people here, whoever they may be, are very eager to get hold of them. 
IAN: None of us are in very good shape to go and get them. 
BARBARA: Oh, I could do it. 
IAN: No, it must be me. 
BARBARA: But you can't walk. 
IAN: Oh, I'll be all right in a couple of hours. 
DOCTOR: Whoever goes must be very careful. As far as I can ascertain, the creatures out there are the ones who dropped the box. They're called Thals. They're mutations. 
IAN: So it wasn't our captors who left the drugs behind? 
DOCTOR: No. If they were drugs. I've learnt quite a lot from the Daleks. 
IAN: The who? 
DOCTOR: The Daleks, our captors here. Oh, if I didn't feel so. Oh. But I was right about the neutron bomb. The Daleks built this underground city as a kind of huge shelter. 
IAN: But what about the, what do you call them, the Thals? I mean, how did they survive out there? They 
DOCTOR: I don't know. 
IAN: Doctor. Doctor? I must get that drug quickly. 
SUSAN: He's burning hot. 
IAN: Yes. As soon as they take me to the surface, I'll ask for water. In the meantime you must keep him as cool as you possibly can. I think there's some life coming back into my toes. 
SUSAN: You can't go alone, Ian. I have to go with you. 
IAN: No, I want you to stay here, Susan. 
SUSAN: But I can't. I must go with you. 
IAN: Don't argue with me. 
SUSAN: You can't get into the ship. 
IAN: All right then, give me the key. 
SUSAN: It's not just a question of turning the key. The whole lock comes away from the door. 
IAN: Susan, supposing these Daleks insist that only one of us goes. Then I'll have to take the key and I'll have to go on trying until the door opens. 
SUSAN: No, you'd jam the lock. Look, it's a defence mechanism. There are twenty one different holes inside the lock. There's one right place and twenty wrong ones. If you make a mistake, you'll. Well, the whole inside of the lock will melt. 
IAN: There's nothing else for it, then. We must go together. Come on, let's see if I can walk. No, it's all right, Barbara. You take it easy. Rest. My right leg is better, you know. I've got feeling in this one, but the left is just pins and needles. 
(A Dalek enters) 
DALEK 1: You must leave now. 
IAN: I'm not well enough yet. 
DALEK 1: You must leave now. 
IAN: My legs are still 
DALEK 1: Which one of you is going? 
(Ian tries to walk and falls) 
IAN: You must give me more time. 
SUSAN: Can't you see how weak he is? 
DALEK 1: There are others. 
BARBARA: Oh, Ian, I can't. The whole room's going round. 
SUSAN: Must I? Alone? 
BARBARA: You can't let her go alone. She's just a child. Plead with them. Anything! 
IAN: Susan, you see how ill they both are. We can't afford to wait until I can walk. An hour might make all the difference. 
SUSAN: I'm so afraid. 
IAN: Go on. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: Don't stop for anything. Straight there, straight back. 
DALEK 1: Are you ready? 
IAN: Yes, all right. 
SUSAN: I'm coming now. 
(The Dalek and Susan leave) 
BARBARA: Ian, the others in the forest. He said they were mutations. 
IAN: But what else could I do?

[Control room]

DALEK 2: The child has set out. 
DALEK 1: Her direction is being followed on the rangescopes? 
DALEK 2: Yes. 
DALEK 1: Mark her movements carefully. If there are more Thal people living in the jungle, she will try to contact them. 
DALEK 2: I understand. If she returns with the drugs, am I to allow the prisoners to use it? 
DALEK 1: No. They will die in time. There only value is in bringing us enough of the Thal drug to duplicate it for our own use. 
ALL: Yes, at last we have a chance. 
[Detention cell]

BARBARA: He's getting worse. 
IAN: How long did the Doctor say we'd last without treatment? Forty eight hours? 
BARBARA: I don't know. It's hit him so badly, Ian. 
IAN: Yes. How are you feeling? 
BARBARA: Oh, I ache all over. I have difficulty in keeping my eyes open. 
IAN: Yes, I'm about the same. All his fault! Had to have his own way, see the city. 
BARBARA: Oh, Ian, that doesn't help. 
IAN: I know, I know. 
BARBARA: We must wait. That's all we can do. 
IAN: Wait. Yes. An hour ago I thought we might try and escape, watch their movements, make a plan. There's always a chance. Now we're too late. I think even if they left the doors wide open we wouldn't have the strength to crawl through them. 
BARBARA: How long has she been gone? 
IAN: About an hour. She should just be on the edge of the jungle by now.

[Forest]

(There's thunder, wind and lightning as Susan makes her way through the petrified jungle. Something else is moving too. She runs on, falls, and sees - what?)

[Detention cell]

BARBARA: He's so hot. It's like a fever. 
IAN: Yes, his breathing's so bad. What do you think, Barbara? 
BARBARA: I don't know. Even if Susan got back now, I don't know whether she'd be in time. Give me his coat. 
IAN: Here you are. 
(She uses it to make a pillow for the Doctor's head) 
IAN: Barbara, come on now. 
BARBARA: I'm all right. 
IAN: Sit down. No, you rest. You can't do anything more for him. 
BARBARA: It's so hot in here. 
IAN: Yes. Now you try and sleep, Barbara. Try and sleep. 
BARBARA: Yes, I'd like to sleep. 
IAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: It's so hot. 
(Ian realises he can walk properly again, and goes to the door, but doubles over with pain) 
IAN: Hurry, Susan. Hurry, Susan! 
(Susan is running, terrified, through the jungle)

[Control room]

DALEK 2: I have just come from the prisoners. The old man is dying. 
DALEK 1: Then he must die. There is no help we can give him. How are the others? 
DALEK 2: The woman is sleeping very heavily. The young man fights against it. 
DALEK 1: What of the girl? Has she reached the jungle? 
DALEK 2: Yes, the rangerscopes tracked her that far. Now they have lost her.

[Tardis]

(Susan has made it, and picks up the box from the chair where she left it. She remembers what she was told) 
IAN [OC]: Don't stop for anything. Straight there, straight back. An hour might make all the difference. 
SUSAN: I must. I must. 
(She opens the doors again and steps out into the storm)

Episode Three - The Escape

[Forest]

(Susan steps outside the Tardis and meets a tall blond man) 
SUSAN: Who are you? What do you want? 
ALYDON: Don't be afraid. 
SUSAN: What do you want? But they said you were, but they called you. But you're not. You're perfect. 
ALYDON: I tried to speak to you in the forest yesterday, but I frightened you. I'm sorry. 
SUSAN: I was frightened. I was terrified. 
ALYDON: Yes, I was very clumsy. I have come now to make certain you understand how to use the drugs I left for you. 
SUSAN: You left? But we thought they had been dropped by accident. 
ALYDON: No. 
SUSAN: We didn't even know they were drugs. 
MAN: You mean you haven't taken them yet? But you must. 
SUSAN: That's why I came back, you see. My grandfather and two of my friends are prisoners in the city and 
ALYDON: No, please, please, you're too quick for me. There are four of you, I know that. I've watched you. And what do you mean, prisoners? 
SUSAN: Well, don't you know about the Daleks? 
ALYDON: So the Dalek people have survived. But do they live in that dead city? 
SUSAN: Well, underneath it, anyway. You see, the Daleks want the drugs too, and they won't let us go until I bring them back to them. 
ALYDON: But why should they want the drugs? Surely they must have some themselves if they're still alive. 
SUSAN: I don't know. Look, my grandfather and my friends are terribly ill. I must take the drug back to them. 
ALYDON: No. No, no, wait. Are you sure the Daleks want the drugs for your friends and not for themselves? 
SUSAN: I hadn't thought of that. 
MAN: Do you trust them? 
SUSAN: No. I'm not sure. 
ALYDON: You still have the drugs I left for you. I shall give you a further supply which you must hide as best you can. Do you trust me? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
ALYDON: I am Alydon of the Thal race. I shall go with you through the forest to the outer wall of the city, if you will allow me. 
SUSAN: Oh, thank you. I don't understand. They said you were. Well, they called you mutations. 
ALYDON: Here, take my cloak. You're cold. 
SUSAN: Thank you. 
ALYDON: We are the survivors of a final war. But the radiation still persists and that is why your friends are ill. I wonder if the Daleks have seen us. 
SUSAN: Seen you? 
ALYDON: I mean, if they call us mutations, what must they be like?

[Control room]

DALEK 2: I have returned the girl to the cell. 
DALEK 1: Very well. 
DALEK 2: They are asking for water. 
DALEK 1: Give them some. It is clear that the girl must have made contact with the Thals. 
DALEK 2: Our prisoners could bring the Thals to us. 
DALEK 1: Precisely that.

[Detention cell]

SUSAN: The Thal said the drug would act quickly. 
IAN: Don't give him any more water, Susan. His pulse is steady now anyway. 
BARBARA: My arms are tingling. 
SUSAN: Yes, Alydon said you'd feel that. It just means the drug's working, that's all. 
IAN: This Alydon of yours seems to have kept his wits about him. Giving you that extra supply of drugs. 
SUSAN: Yes. It was strange when the Daleks found it. I thought first of all they were going to keep both lots. Then they suddenly seemed to change their mind and gave the second lot back to me. 
IAN: Yes. Still, the Thals seem more friendly. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. Alydon gave me this cloak to keep me warm. 
BARBARA: Why do the Daleks think they're mutations? 
SUSAN: I don't know. Judging by Alydon, they're magnificent people. 
DOCTOR: Susan. 
SUSAN: Grandfather? You'll feel better soon. I brought the drugs back. 
DOCTOR: Give me a little while and then we must go back to the ship. 
SUSAN: No, we're still prisoners. 
DOCTOR: Oh, are we? Oh, yes. Well, we must leave here soon. We must, must leave. Yes. 
SUSAN: As soon as grandfather's properly awake we must try and find a way of helping the Thals. 
BARBARA: We can't even help ourselves, locked up in here like this. 
SUSAN: We must try and talk to the Daleks. Alydon says the Thals are going to starve unless they can find new supplies of food. You see, after the war, the Thals that survived managed to cultivate small plots of land. Well, that's how they've survived ever since. But they've always had to be very, very careful, because the crops have always been in danger. But, you see, they rely on a great rainfall that only happens about every four or five years. Well, it's two years overdue now, and all their crops are ruined. Well, that's why the whole Thal race had to leave their plateau and go in search of food.

[Control room]

SUSAN [on monitor]: Alydon says, unless we can help them arrange some sort of treaty with the Daleks, they're all going to die. 
IAN [on monitor]: But how can we, Susan? 
SUSAN [on monitor]: Well, he wants to talk to the Daleks. He said if they agree to supply food for them, then one of us must take a message outside the city. 
DALEK 2: We could let this catastrophe destroy the Thals. 
DALEK 1: Will they let themselves starve to death? No. I feel preserving our prisoners was a good idea. 
DALEK 2: And an arrangement to bring the Thals inside our city an even better one. 
DALEK 1: We'll let our prisoners sleep and then give them food. After that, we can plan. 
DALEK 2: Why not begin now? 
DALEK 1: Because the lapse of time, the relaxation of sleep, the provision of food, all these things will give them a false sense of security.

[Detention cell]

(They are woken by the door open, and a pepperpot bearing gifts) 
DALEK 1: We have brought you food and more water. (Barbara takes it) The girl is to come with me. 
IAN: Why? 
SUSAN: It's all right. 
BARBARA: Well, what are they going to do to her? 
DALEK 1: She will be returned. We are going to help the Thals, which is what you want us to do. Come now. 
(The door closes) 
DOCTOR: I can't understand. Why have they taken Susan? 
IAN: How do they know we want to help the Thals?

[Jungle, outside the Tardis]

(A group of Thals arrive) 
ALYDON: Ah, Ganatus. 
GANATUS: Alydon. 
ALYDON: You've been longer than I thought. 
GANATUS: The path was rough. 
ALYDON: The dead city lies over there. 
TEMMOSUS: (a man with a headdress) Get the tent here, towards the west. 
DYONI: (a young woman) What is it, Temmosus. 
TEMMOSUS: This must be the craft in which the strangers arrived here. So, Alydon, we were right to believe the city inhabited. 
ALYDON: Yes, Temmosus. 
TEMMOSUS: I wonder what they'll be like. How they'll be disposed towards us. 
GANATUS: They are Daleks. 
TEMMOSUS: Yes, but we've changed over the centuries. Why shouldn't they? The once famous warrior race of Thals are now farmers. 
DYONI: But the Daleks were teachers, weren't they, Temmosus? 
TEMMOSUS: Yes, they were. And philosophers. 
GANATUS: Perhaps they are the warriors now. 
TEMMOSUS: From the distance, the city looks as if they make science and invention their profession. It's a magical architecture. Perhaps we can exchange ideas with them, learn from them. 
GANATUS: Perhaps. 
TEMMOSUS: And these others, they arrived here in this weird object? 
ALYDON: Yes, Temmosus. 
TEMMOSUS: And you trust them, Alydon? 
ALYDON: I have only spoken with the young girl, but if the others are anything like her, I would trust them absolutely. 
TEMMOSUS: I hope you're not too generous in your beliefs. What do you say, Dyoni? 
DYONI: I have no opinions in the matter. 
GANATUS: How unusual.
TEMMOSUS: Where is the girl now? 
ALYDON: I have given her the drugs and she has returned to the city. 
DYONI: It would have been better if you had given it to a man instead of a girl. 
ALYDON: I had no chance. They're prisoners in the city. 
GANATUS: Prisoners? 
TEMMOSUS: Are you sure? 
ALYDON: I'm afraid so. From everything the young girl said, the Daleks are certainly very suspicious of others. 
TEMMOSUS: Tell me, Alydon. How old is this young girl? 
ALYDON: No longer a child, not yet a woman. 
TEMMOSUS: Ah, then perhaps it's safe for you to talk to her, if she's not yet a woman. 
(Dyoni stalks off as Ganatus laughs) 
ALYDON: I don't understand her. If we don't find a new food supply for next year, we're finished. Doesn't she understand that? We're all working towards the same end. 
GANATUS: Now there's a double meaning for you. 
TEMMOSUS: But don't you realise that Dyoni sees her personal future in you. You must remember that when we left our plateau and started on this journey, she was little more than a child. But that was four years ago. 
ALYDON: I'm not quite so blind. 
TEMMOSUS: Well, go on. What have you planned? 
ALYDON: The young girl will speak with the Daleks, and a message will come from the city. 
TEMMOSUS: Direct from the girl? 
ALYDON: Yes. 
TEMMOSUS: But how shall we know that it is not a trick? 
ALYDON: Well, she told me her name> Susan. And that is how the message is to be signed. Otherwise, we shall know the Daleks are hostile to us.

[Control room]

(Susan is taking dictation from the Daleks) 
DALEK 2: Have liquid foods, water in abundance. We can also supply unlimited quantities of fresh vegetables which are forced in artificial sunlight. 
SUSAN: Just a minute. Artificial sunlight. All right, go on. 
DALEK 2: In return, we shall expect the Thals to help us in the re-cultivation of the land surrounding the 
DALEK 1: Why have you stopped writing? 
SUSAN: Well, I can only ask them. I can't accept for them. 
DALEK 1: Then put down that we expect them to help us. 
SUSAN: Yes, I'm sure they will. 
DALEK 1: Please sit still while we examine what you've written. 
(Dalek 2 holds it up to Dalek 1's eyepiece) 
DALEK 1: What is the last word here? 
SUSAN: The last word? 
DALEK 1: Su San. Stop that noise. (a giggle) 
SUSAN: It's what I'm called. It's my name. Susan. 
DALEK 1: Have you told the Thals that you would write this name on the message? 
SUSAN: Yes. Look, there's no need to be frightened of them. They're very friendly people. All they want is food. Let me take the message to them. 
DALEK 1: No. 
SUSAN: Why not? 
DALEK 1: We have planned otherwise. 
IAN [on monitor]: But how long are they going to keep Susan, Doctor? 
BARBARA [on monitor]: What do they want with her? 
DOCTOR [on monitor]: Perhaps they're going to let us go. I don't know. 
(The Dalek switches it off) 
SUSAN: We knew you could hear us, 'cause you knew about the Thals and the food. 
DALEK 1: It does not matter. We have the message now.

[Detention cell]

IAN: All set, Doctor? (loud) The whole pattern of things is suspicious. Just because the Daleks didn't kill us is no reason to trust them. 
DOCTOR: Or suspect them either. 
BARBARA: Or maybe they just have a different way of doing things. 
IAN: The Thals have helped us. The Daleks put us in a cell. I know which of the two I prefer. 
DOCTOR: I tell you, the Daleks are brilliant people. I think we ought to cooperate with them. 
IAN: Ever since you talked alone to the Daleks, you've been on their side. What have they done, bribed you or something? Look, I want to know why. Why are you on their side and against the rest of us. 
DOCTOR: Take your hands off me. How dare you shout 
SUSAN: Leave my grandfather alone! 
IAN: I want an answer. 
BARBARA: Stop arguing. 
IAN: Please give me space. 
BARBARA: Ian. 
DOCTOR: Keep away from me! 
(Susan jumps on Ian's shoulders) 
BARBARA: Susan, what are you doing? 
(She's using the piggy-back ride to pull the spy camera out of the ceiling) 
IAN: Did I hurt you? 
SUSAN: No, of course you didn't. 
DOCTOR: Don't waste time. 
IAN: Fix you for a while.

[Control room]

DALEK 2: Do you think it was broken accidentally in their struggle? 
DALEK 1: No, the cable is strong. They have broken it deliberately. 
DALEK 3: They can be moved immediately to another room, the eye repaired. 
DALEK 1: No. 
DALEK 2: Extermination, then. 
DALEK 1: There is no escape from the room that holds them. They may well be useful again. We shall deal with the Thals.

[Detention cell]

DOCTOR: The point is, how do we get out of here? Wait until the Daleks open the door, and force the issue? 
BARBARA: But we'd never get near them. 
SUSAN: We must try and trick them. We must all pretend to be dead. Then when they come in to investigate, we must rush down the corridor 
IAN: Yes, and then what? No. We must find a way of putting these machines out of action. 
BARBARA: Yes. Remember what they did to your legs. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: The floors are metal. All the floors are metal. 
BARBARA: Well, so are the streets of the city outside. 
DOCTOR: Why? 
BARBARA: I don't know. 
DOCTOR: No, I know you don't know. I mean, why do they use metal? Is it because it lasts longer? Or because 
IAN: Because it's essential to them. That's an idea. 
BARBARA: Well how is that going to help us? 
IAN: Well, if metal is essential 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, now listen. Let's concentrate on the Daleks. Have you noticed, for example, that when they move about there's a sort of acrid smell? 
SUSAN: Yes, yes, I've noticed that. 
BARBARA: I know. A fairground. 
IAN: That's it. Dodgems. 
DOCTOR: It's electricity. I think they're powered that way. 
IAN: Yes. But just a minute. They have no pick-up or anything. And only the base of the machine touches the floor. How do they complete the circuit? 
SUSAN: Batteries? 
DOCTOR: No, no. I believe the Daleks have discovered a way to exploit static electricity. Very ingenious, if I'm right. 
BARBARA: What, drawing power from the floor? 
DOCTOR: Precisely. If I'm right, of course. Now, what do we know apart from guessing how they are powered? 
SUSAN: Well, they can see all round them. 
BARBARA: Yes. Their eye is flexible, like a large camera lens. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes. Now, Chesterton, do you mind concentrating, young man? 
IAN: Hmm? Susan. The cloak the Thals gave you. 
SUSAN: Yes, it's just behind you. 
IAN: Barbara, come here. What do you think this is made of? 
BARBARA: I don't know. It isn't plastic, I don't think it's nylon either. 
IAN: Whatever it is, it'll do for what we want. 
DOCTOR: And what will it do, young man? Hmm? 
IAN: Insulate. If you are right, Doctor, about the Daleks taking up power from the floor, this is a perfect way of putting them out of action.

[Thal camp (outside the Tardis)]

(A Thal returns with a metal lizard on his shoulder) 
DYONI: Oh, look, Ganatus, they've found a Magneton under some bushes. 
GANATUS: Dead, I hope. 
DYONI: Well, of course it's dead. Oh, I never know when you're serious and when you're joking. 
GANATUS: We'll be able to recharge the hand lights. I'll go and tell Antodus. 
DYONI: Is he still afraid of the dark? I'm sorry, I 
GANATUS: My brother isn't afraid of anything. 
ALYDON: Temmosus, suppose the Daleks refuse to help us. What then? 
TEMMOSUS: I believe the Daleks hold the key to our future. Whatever that future may be, we must accept it gracefully and without regret. 
ALYDON: I wish I could be as objective as you. We've lived for so long a time. 
TEMMOSUS: Perhaps we have lived too long. I've never struggled against the inevitable. It's a vain occupation. But I should always advise you to examine very closely what you think to be inevitable. It's surprising how often apparent defeat can be turned to victory. 
GANATUS: This was found at the city gates. 
ALYDON: What does it say? 
(as if they could read Earth English....) 
TEMMOSUS: They're going to help us! It's signed by the girl, Susan. She says the Dalek people have no malice towards us, and they hope that they can work with us to build a new and safe world, free from the fear of war. They have the ability to produce food by means of synthetic sunlight, and they have left a quantity of it in the entrance hall of their main building. We are to collect it tomorrow. So there is a future for us.

[Detention cell]

(Susan is listening at the door) 
SUSAN: Shh. He's coming. 
DOCTOR: Ready? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Now all of you watch very carefully. See that you notice every detail in that machine, right? 
(The door opens. The Dalek is bringing a tray) 
DALEK 1: Move back from the door. 
(Susan and Ian move into the middle of the room) 
DALEK 1: Take the food. 
(Susan does, and gives it to the Doctor. The Dalek backs out and the door closes) 
IAN: I'll be able to jam the door with a piece of this. (the spy camera) 
SUSAN: He seemed to be able to cover all of us. 
BARBARA: It's impossible to hide from it. 
IAN: Yes. Perhaps we can throw a coat over the lens. 
BARBARA: Surely it would see you. 
IAN: Yes. Doctor, perhaps we can stage something. You know, a distraction. And when the lens looks the other way, throw something over it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. 
BARBARA: Now, wait a minute. Susan, throw me your shoes. 
(Barbara picks the jungle soil off the soles) 
IAN: What are you up to? 
BARBARA: Making mud. 
(Later) 
DOCTOR: If he's on time, we have three minutes. 
IAN: I'm ready. 
DOCTOR: How's the mud? 
BARBARA: It's very sticky and very nasty. 
DOCTOR: Very good. Very good idea. 
SUSAN: Shall I spread the cloak over? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. Not too near the door. We don't want to make him suspicious. 
SUSAN: Just down there? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. Quickly. Good, child. 
IAN: He's coming. 
DOCTOR: Mind your head. 
(Ian slides the camera under the edge of the door as it starts to open, and rolls into the middle of the room with everyone else) 
DALEK 1: Take this. 
(Susan takes the tray, and the Dalek backs out. The door fails to close and an alarm sounds. The Dalek comes back in) 
DOCTOR: Now! 
(Barbara slams the mud over the eyepiece) 
DALEK 1: Keep away. Keep away from me. 
(The Doctor and Ian try to drag it onto the cloak. It starts to flail around) 
DALEK 1: Keep away from me! Keep away! Keep away! 
IAN: That's a gun! That's a gun! 
DALEK 1 : Keep away from me! Keep away from me! Keep away from me! Keep away from me! Keep away from me! 
(Finally they get it onto the cloak) 
SUSAN: Yes, I got it! 
DOCTOR: Well done, Susan. 
BARBARA: Ian, come on out of the way. 
DOCTOR: Are you all right, Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. 
IAN: I think I'm all right. Swing it round. Keep out of the way, Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: Now, I think it's worked. Take your hand off the gun. It has! It's worked! Now, there must be a catch here somewhere. I've found one. 
(He lifts the Dalek lid, and puts it down again very quickly) 
IAN: Susan, Barbara, go in the corridor and keep a lookout. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: You'll have to help me. (they lift the lid again) Let's roll it off the cloak. A bit more, all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: Give me that cloak. That's it. All right. Now. 
(They wrap the cloak around the contents of the Dalek) 
IAN: Lift. 
(The Doctor dumps it in the corner) 
IAN: Now, see if I can get inside it. All clear in the corridor? 
SUSAN and BARBARA: Yes. 
SUSAN: I think there's a sentry down the other end of the corridor. 
BARBARA: Well, they made such a terrible noise. Ian, hurry. 
IAN: Not much room for my legs, but try the top. 
DOCTOR: Barbara, Susan, give me a hand. Move it down gently. (they lower the lid) How is it? 
IAN: (Dalek-like) It's very cramped indeed. 
DOCTOR: Well, can't you sound more like a Dalek? 
BARBARA: Yes, in a monotone. You've heard them. 
IAN: Do you mean like this?
DOCTOR: That's it. 
SUSAN: Can you see all right? 
IAN: No. There's some sort of screen. No, it's the mud. Wipe the mud off the lens. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes, all right. It's all clogged up. Is that better? 
IAN: Yes, I can see now. 
SUSAN: Good. 
IAN: I can't make this thing move. It's full of controls. 
DOCTOR: Don't worry, we'll push you. 
IAN: It moves well enough. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: Surely they'll know that we're pushing you. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, it won't be suspicious at all.

[Corridor]

IAN: All right now, Susan, Barbara. You get in front and pretend I'm taking you for questioning. 
SUSAN: Right. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: And Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes? 
IAN: You lead us. You know the way. 
SUSAN: All right. This way, then. 
(and a little clawed hand pokes out from under the cloak in the cell)

Episode Four - The Ambush

[Corridor]

(Barbara and Susan are still pulling Ian along by the sink-plunger) 
IAN: Hey. Let go a minute. I think I've found out how to operate this thing. Yes, I can. Quick, Doctor, get in front. Ready? Off we go. 
(A little further along) 
SUSAN: Wait. This looks like the place. Stay there. (She looks around a corner and comes back) There's a great iron door with a Dalek on guard. And beyond the door there's a lift. 
DOCTOR: It's up to you now, Chesterton. You have to do as little talking as possible. 
IAN: All right. 
DALEK: Stop. 
IAN: The council wishes to question the prisoners. 
DALEK: I have not been informed. Wait. 
SUSAN: No! I'm not going! No! 
DALEK: Hold her. 
IAN: I have got her. Now hold still. Help me to get them inside. 
(The Dalek pushes Susan into the lift) 
IAN: You too.

[Room]

DALEK: Shall I help you to the fourth level with them? 
IAN: No. Close the doors. The girl cannot run far inside. 
(Once the door is closed, the Doctor pulls a lead from a sensor near it) 
DOCTOR: That's fixed the door. 
BARBARA: That was a very good idea, Susan. 
IAN: He didn't hurt you? 
SUSAN: No, not really. 
IAN: Well, help me to get out of this thing. I'm suffocating. 
BARBARA: The clasp is stuck. 
DOCTOR: Here, let me help fix it.

[Corridor]

(The guard Dalek makes his report) 
DALEK: I have just passed the prisoners through into lift shaft seven. 
DALEK 1 [OC]: There are no orders to move the prisoners. Hold them. 
(It tries to open the door, and fails) 
DALEK: The door is locked. Emergency alarm. 
DALEK 1 [OC]: Attention. Immobilise lift shaft seven floor area.

[Room]

IAN: They know. Come on, hurry up will you? 
DOCTOR: Wait a minute. There, it's free. Lift it from the top. 
SUSAN: Good. Hurry up. 
BARBARA: I can't move it. It won't budge. 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, try and force it up from the inside. 
IAN: I'm trying. No, no, it's no good. There's something jammed inside here. Forcing it's only making it worse. 
(There is banging on the door) 
BARBARA: Ian, come on, hurry. 
IAN: I, I can't move it! 
SUSAN: Ow! That door's red hot. 
DOCTOR: They're cutting through the door. 
BARBARA: We'll have to move you into the lift. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but hurry, hurry. 
SUSAN: It's stuck. 
BARBARA: I don't understand it. It moved easily enough before. 
DOCTOR: They've magnetised the floor. You feel it? 
BARBARA: Are you sure? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Chesterton, we're not able to get you into the lift. 
IAN: Yes, I realise that. Take the others away in the lift, Doctor. 
BARBARA: We're not going without you. 
IAN: Don't waste time. Go on. 
DOCTOR: Well, come on. He's right. 
BARBARA: No. I'm not leaving Ian. 
DOCTOR: When we get to the top, we'll send the lift back down for you. All right? 
SUSAN: No, Grandfather, we can't. 
IAN: Go on, go on. 
SUSAN: No! 
IAN: Go on. 
DOCTOR: Come on, Susan. 
IAN: Barbara, for goodness sake, go. 
SUSAN: Oh, look! 
(The Daleks are cutting around the door. The three go up on the lift platform) 
IAN: I must, must get out.

[Lift]

BARBARA: How long will it take them to cut through the door? 
DOCTOR: Oh, maybe ten minutes. If we're lucky, longer. 
SUSAN: But even if he does get out, he's stuck down there. His only way out is the lift. We must go back for him! 
DOCTOR: Susan, it's no good. We cannot do anything for him now, child.

[Level One]

(Barbara, Susan and the Doctor get out of the lift and send it back down again) 
BARBARA: We should never have left him. It's so slow. It'll never reach him in time.

[Corridor]

DALEK 1: It is nearly completed. 
[Room]

(The Daleks enter the room and fire at the Dalek shell. It falls apart) 
DALEK 1: It is empty. 
DALEK 2: Lock the lift. 
DALEK 1: The emergency switch. Bring it down.

[Level One]

BARBARA: Come on, Ian. Come on. 
IAN [OC]: All right, I'm coming. 
(He gets out just before the lift goes back down again) 
IAN: They had about two inches of that door to cut through when I got out. 
SUSAN: Are you all right? 
IAN: Yes, thank you, Susan. 
DOCTOR: Well never mind that now. We must try and find a way out of this room. 
BARBARA: Daylight! 
IAN: Yes, but where exactly are we? 
DOCTOR: We're right at the top of the building. I can just see the surface of the city. See over there? There's the edge of the petrified jungle. 
IAN: Yes. I'm trying to recognise the streets we came along. 
BARBARA: Everything looks so different from above. Do you see anything at all that looks like 
IAN: What is it? 
BARBARA: Ian? 
IAN: What's the matter? 
BARBARA: There's someone down there. Look, by that sort of gateway thing beyond the low building. I saw someone cross that space. 
DOCTOR: A Dalek? 
BARBARA: No, it was a man. A human being. 
SUSAN: The Thals! They've come for food supplies. 
DOCTOR: They're walking into an ambush.

[Room]

(A Dalek enters the lift)
DALEK 2: Make no attempt to capture them. They are to be exterminated. You understand? Exterminated. 
DALEK 1: I understand.

[Level One]

(As the Dalek ascends, the four are trying to attract the attention of the Thals outside) 
IAN: Oh, it's no good. This room must be soundproof. We must find a way of getting down there. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but how, dear boy? 
BARBARA: Isn't this a door? 
IAN: Yes! Doctor, open it. 
DOCTOR: Well, yes. 
SUSAN: What's the matter with it? 
DOCTOR: They've magnetised it, too. Come on, let's try and force it open. 
IAN: I can get my fingers in. Sorry. Yes, it's beginning to move. 
BARBARA: Ian, the lift's coming back! 
SUSAN: Oh, no. 
IAN: Doctor, keep working the door. (he tries the lift controls) It's no good. Wait. Come over here and give me a hand. Quick, now. All push together. 
(They slide a sculpture over to the lift shaft) 
DOCTOR: It's open. I've done it. 
SUSAN: Good. 
IAN: Be right with you. 
DOCTOR: Look, what are you doing? 
IAN: Just cutting down the odds a bit. Are you ready? All together, one, two, three, push! 
(The stone sculpture crashes down onto the lift, knocking it off it's tracks) 
IAN: All right, Doctor, through you go. Yes, go on.

[City]

(A cautious Alydon is leading Ganatus, Temmosus and a few other Thals to the main entrance) 
TEMMOSUS: You're much too suspicious. 
ALYDON: Perhaps I am, Temmosus, but why should the Daleks help us? 
TEMMOSUS: You've been saying that ever since their message arrived. Perhaps their offer was coldly worded, but friendship grows with time. These Daleks must have believed that they were the only survivors on this planet. 
ALYDON: And are they relieved to find they aren't? Or are they shocked and horrified, perhaps insanely jealous? 
TEMMOSUS: You've no reason to say that. I think you misjudge them. 
ALYDON: Well, yes, I'm being illogical, unfair if you like, but I just have an instinct. 
TEMMOSUS: Listen. We must find a new source of food. The Daleks have it. They've offered it to us. These are facts, Alydon, facts. 
ALYDON: Yes, yes, I know, but let me talk to them. 
TEMMOSUS: It's right that I should do so. 
ALYDON: But supposing 
TEMMOSUS: No, Alydon. And you must thrown off these suspicions. They're based on fear, and fear breeds hatred and war. I shall speak to them peacefully. They'll see that I'm unarmed. There's no better argument against war than that. 
ALYDON: Yes, if they really want to listen.

[Food area]

(Four Daleks are in alcoves around the food supplies) 
DALEK 1: They are approaching. 
(The Daleks conceal themselves)

[Gateway]

(Ian, Barbara, Susan and the Doctor are running) 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather, come on. Come on, hurry. 
BARBARA: Where are we? 
IAN: By the city wall, I think. Yes, there's a gateway about fifty yards away. 
BARBARA: Are there any Daleks? 
IAN: Wait there. No, no, I think we're all right. 
DOCTOR: Well, lets get back to the ship. 
SUSAN: No, no, I must warn the Thals. 
DOCTOR: Susan. 
SUSAN: We can't let them walk into a trap. 
DOCTOR: The Thals are no concern of ours. We cannot jeopardise our lives getting involved in an affair which is none of our business. 
BARBARA: Of course it's our business. The Thals gave us the anti-radiation drug. Without that, we'd be dead! 
IAN: Yes, but the Doctor's got a point. There's no sense in risking our whole party. You go back to the ship and I'll stay and warn the Thals. 
SUSAN: No, we're all in this together. We're all going to stay here. 
IAN: Susan, you do as I say! You go back to the ship with Barbara and your grandfather. 
SUSAN: But don't you understand 
BARBARA: I know what Ian means. He stands a much better chance on his own if he doesn't have us to worry about. Now, come on. We'll wait for you. 
IAN: I'll be there. 
DOCTOR: Good luck, Chesterton. 
IAN: Thank you. Go on.

[Food Area]

(Temmosus leads the Thals in, as Ian watches from his own hiding place) 
TEMMOSUS: Daleks, can you hear me? Daleks, the Thal people wish to live in peace. If this is your wish too, then let us work together to rebuild our world. We need your help, and in return we'll make the soil live again, grow crops, build homes. The time for enmity is passed. If this is the kind of future that you want, then send for us and we shall talk. 
(The Daleks come out of their concealment, behind him) 
TEMMOSUS: You need not decide now. We've been waiting for centuries. We shall go on waiting. 
(He finally notices the Daleks, and tells his companions) 
TEMMOSUS: Take these things. 
IAN: No! It's a trap! Get out of here! Run! 
DALEK: Fire! 
(Temmosus is killed. Ian gets away and Alydon hides as the Daleks go after the other Thals)

[Gateway]

IAN: Who are you? 
ALYDON: I am Alydon. You are the man who warned us? 
IAN: Yes. I'm sorry I was late. 
ALYDON: Yes, our leader Temmosus is dead. 
IAN: I know. I saw it. 
ALYDON: Why? Why kill him? They didn't even know him. 
IAN: We can't stand here discussing it. Get yourself and your men away from here. Come on.

[Thal camp]

(The Thals are waiting, and so are our travellers) 
ELYON: No, not yet. 
DOCTOR: Fascinating. Absolutely fascinating. You know, these records must go back nearly half a million years. 
DYONI: The complete history of our planet Skaro is here. It seems now that no one will survive to read it. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, young lady. Your survival is all here. What, er, is this a solar system? 
DYONI: Yes. Skaro is the twelfth planet. Here. 
DOCTOR: I see. And this? What is this planet? 
DYONI: Each of these maps is a tiny section of another solar system, so the total picture can be built up. 
DOCTOR: Total? Oh, you have records of other systems? 
DYONI: Yes. Well, I say total. Of course, we were only able to map out as far as our electroscopes allowed. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. I wonder if I could see the plans. 
DYONI: Oh, yes. 
DOCTOR: I might be able to fix our position. Oh, yes, yes. Absorbing, most absorbing. 
SUSAN: Grandfather seems to be enjoying himself. 
ALYDON: Some of the children have heard something moving in the forest. 
IAN: It can't be the Daleks. They told us they couldn't come out of the city. 
ALYDON: Nevertheless, I think we should all be on our guard. 
ELYON: Here they are. Antodus has been wounded. 
GANATUS: We had to go round the other side of the city. 
ALYDON: Is he badly hurt? 
GANATUS: It's his shoulder. 
DYONI: I'll get some ointment, and something to cover the burns. 
SUSAN: We've got some in the ship. 
DYONI: There's some over here. 
GANATUS: We tried to go back for Temmosus. 
ELYON: Temmosus? What's happened to Temmosus? 
GANATUS: It was hopeless. 
ALYDON: These are the people the Daleks were holding prisoner. This is the man who shouted to warn us. 
GANATUS: Thank you. Did the others get away, Alydon? 
ALYDON: Tecanda was killed. 
ALL: Tecanda? 
ALYDON: The rest of us escaped. 
BARBARA: The burns don't seem to be too bad. 
DYONI: I'll get some water for him to drink. Can you manage? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
GANATUS: Have you decided what we're going to do, Alydon? You must take the place of Temmosus now. 
ALYDON: Yes. Yes, I know. If only I knew why the Daleks hated us. If I knew that, I, I could alter our approach to them, perhaps. 
IAN: Your leader, Temmosus. 
ALYDON: Yes? 
IAN: Well, he appealed very sensibly to them. Any reasonable human beings would have responded to him. The Daleks didn't. They obviously think and act and feel in an entirely different way. They just aren't human. 
GANATUS: Yes, but why destroy without any apparent thought or reason? That's what I don't understand. 
IAN: Oh, there's a reason. Explanation might be better. It's stupid and ridiculous, but it's the only one that fits. 
ALYDON: What? 
IAN: A dislike for the unlike. 
ALYDON: I don't follow you. 
IAN: They're afraid of you because you're different from them. So whatever you do, it doesn't matter. 
DYONI: What would you have us do? Fight against them? 
IAN: I didn't say that. But you must teach them to respect you. Show them some strength. 
DYONI: But you really believe we ought to fight. 
IAN: Yes, I think it may have to come to that. 
DYONI: You understand as little about us as the Daleks do! 
IAN: What would you do if the Daleks could leave their city? If they came up here and attacked you? 
ALYDON: We would go away, back to our plateau where we came from. 
BARBARA: You'd simply run away? 
IAN: Alydon, you can't go on running away. There are some things worth preserving. 
GANATUS: We're not afraid to die. Temmosus proved that. 
IAN: I am not talking about dying. Look, you can't hand yourselves over to the Daleks. Sooner or later, they're going to try and destroy you if they can. 
ALYDON: I can see you want to help us, but as Dyoni says, you don't understand. There can never be any question of the Thals fighting the Daleks. Come, Ganatus. 
BARBARA: I don't understand them. They're not cowards, they don't seem to be afraid. Can pacifism become a human instinct? 
IAN: Pacifism? Is that it? Pacifism only works when everybody feels the same. 
BARBARA: Yes, but are they really pacifists? I mean, genuinely so. Or is it a belief that's become a reality because they've never had to prove it. DOCTOR: I say, I say, I think these'll interest you. (pictures) Look here. This is these people's ancestor, the original Thal male. There was a neutron war here. Most died and the survivors mutated. But in the case of the Thals, mutation came round in full circle then refined itself into what you see. 
IAN: You mean this (humanoid) became 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. It took hundreds of years, of course. In the second example, our recent hosts, the mutation has not completed its full circle. Why, I don't know. But do you remember that monstrosity we took out of its machine? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: This is its forebear. 
IAN: The original Dalek. 
DOCTOR: Yes. They called them Dals then. Oh, it's all there, every moment of it is Skaroene history. Minutely but brilliantly recorded. Priceless, absolutely priceless. 
BARBARA: Is this a sword the Thal's holding? 
DOCTOR: Yes. They were the warriors then. 
BARBARA: Were they? 
DOCTOR: Undoubtedly. 
SUSAN: Antodus is feeling much better. 
DOCTOR: I'm very glad to hear he's improving. Well, now, I'm sure you all agree with me, its time we went back to the ship. Now, come along. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather, couldn't we stay a bit longer? The Thals are such nice people. 
DOCTOR: And the Daleks are not, which is more important, my child. 
(A cortege walks past, carrying Temmosus' body) 
IAN: I wonder if there's any point in reminding the Thals of what they used to be? 
DOCTOR: Why? 
BARBARA: Oh, they're opposed to fighting. We were trying to convince them that it was a necessity for their own survival. 
DOCTOR: But our fate doesn't rest with the Thals, surely. Let's leave well alone. We have ourselves to worry about. Now, come along, come along. Wasting time. 
IAN: Maybe the Doctor's right. 
BARBARA: Yes. Let's get in the ship and get as far away from here as possible. 
DOCTOR: Oh, please, come along. Oh, by the way, let me have the fluid link, will you? Oh, dear boy, now please, please, come along. You know I can't start the ship without it. 
IAN: The fluid link. 
SUSAN: You've lost it? 
BARBARA: Ian, you can't have. 
IAN: No. The Daleks took it from me when they searched me. It's down there somewhere. In the city.

Episode Five - The Expedition

IAN: The fluid link. 
SUSAN: You've lost it? 
BARBARA: Ian, you can't have. 
IAN: No. The Daleks took it from me when they searched me. It must be down there somewhere. In the city.

[Control room]

DALEK 1: The drug has been duplicated. 
DALEK 2: And the distribution? 
DALEK 1: The drug is to be taken by sections of us so work will not be interrupted. 
DALEK 2: Have you processed the pictures? 
DALEK 1: Appearing now on frequency 6. 
(A picture of the Doctor sitting outside the Tardis, looking at the Thal history) 
DALEK 1: It is the elder prisoner. 
DALEK 2: Show second picture. 
DALEK 1: The girl and the young woman. Is that the body of the fourth prisoner? The young man? 
DALEK 2: If so, he has been injured. 
DALEK 1: Show third picture. 
(Ian and Alydon) 
DALEK 1: They have made contact with the Thals. 
DALEK 2: It is logical that together they will attack us.

[Thal camp]

ALYDON: No. And that is my final word. 
(Alydon leaves) 
IAN: Be careful what you're doing up there, Susan. 
SUSAN: (up a tree) Oh, it's all right, Mister Chesterton. I'm quite safe. 
IAN: No good. I've tried everything I know. They just won't risk a fight with the Daleks. The trouble is, I can't go too far. 
BARBARA: What do you mean? 
IAN: Well, why should they help us? Some of them are bound to get killed. What argument can you use to make a man sacrifice himself for you? 
BARBARA: Ian, you don't seem to understand. We'll be prisoners here unless we can think of some way of getting that fluid link back from the Daleks. 
IAN: I am quite well aware of that, Barbara. 
BARBARA: And you know very well they'll find a way out of their city. 
IAN: I know nothing 
BARBARA: Well, you know they will. 
SUSAN: Well, they need metal to travel on. 
BARBARA: Oh, they'll find a way. They're clever enough. They'll find us and kill us, you know that as well as I do. 
IAN: Look, even supposing you're right, I will not ask the Thals to sacrifice themselves for us. I'm sorry, Barbara, I just can't do it. 
BARBARA: Ian, why can't you see? 
(at the Tardis door) 
SUSAN: Any luck, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
SUSAN: Well, have you made another fluid link yet? 
DOCTOR: No, I can't, my child. And I've looked through all my spares and I've really discovered we do need some mercury. 
SUSAN: Oh, no. 
DOCTOR: It's put us in a bit of a jam. I must get that fluid link back again. I'm afraid my little trick has rather rebounded on me. What you might call tempting providence, Chesserman. 
IAN: Well, don't worry about it now, Doctor. It's happened. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, at least you're not vindictive. 
IAN: Well I will be if you don't get my name right. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
IAN: It's Chesterton. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Hey? I know that. 
BARBARA: How you two can stand there wasting time with small talk beats me. 
DOCTOR: I can assure you, young lady, I haven't been wasting my time. There's always a way. 
SUSAN: You always think of something, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, my dear. Your faith is something that I prize very highly. You all realise, of course, we cannot succeed against the Daleks alone? 
BARBARA: Of course not. 
DOCTOR: We have a ready-made army here. The Thals. They're strong, and they have one great advantage against the Daleks. They can move so much more quickly. 
IAN: They have one great disadvantage. They have no arms or ammunition. 
DOCTOR: Well, that's all right, young man. The mind will always triumph. With me to lead them, the Thals are bound to succeed. 
SUSAN: But Grandfather, we've been talking and arguing about this all morning. The Thals won't fight. They're against war. 
DOCTOR: My dear child, this is no time for morals. They must fight for us. 
IAN: Why? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear young man, I do hope you're not going to be difficult. 
BARBARA: The Doctor's right. Ian, can't you see? If only we can get the Thals to attack the city, we could beat the Daleks and get the link back. 
DOCTOR: It's just common sense. Young lady, I've been underestimating you. 
IAN: I will not allow you to use the Thals to fight for us. 
DOCTOR: Are you challenging me? 
IAN: Yes, I am. 
BARBARA: Do I have any say in this? 
IAN: Of course you do. 
BARBARA: Well I think the Doctor's right and I want to get out of here. 
IAN: I am sorry, I'm not having anyone's death on my conscience. 
BARBARA: Except mine and Susan's and the Doctor's? 
DOCTOR: Quite so. 
IAN: The only way the Thals can fight is if they themselves want to. It must have nothing whatsoever to do with us. 
SUSAN: I know what you mean. We must help the Thals to save themselves and not just them help us. 
IAN: Exactly. 
BARBARA: All you're doing is playing with words. 
DOCTOR: We need action, not arguments. 
IAN: Now listen, you two. What victory are you going to show these people when most of them have been killed? A fluid link? Is this what you're going to hold up to them and say, 'Thank you very much. This is what you fought and died for'? 
SUSAN: The thing is, can the Thals still fight? 
IAN: Well that's what we've got to find out. Are they cowards, or are they just against fighting on principle? 
BARBARA: Well, how can we find out? 
IAN: Well, I've got an idea. But whatever I do, don't interfere. I'm not even sure that I'm right. 
(He goes and picks up the container of all the Thal history) 
IAN: Well, let's see what happens. 
DOCTOR: Hmm, strange young man. 
SUSAN: He's right, though. 
BARBARA: Yes, he is. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we'll see. 
(Ian is talking to Alydon and the Thals) 
IAN: to have self- respect. At this moment, anyone could come in here. They could rob, they could steal. 
DOCTOR: Let's see what he's up to. 
IAN: They could even kill you. And you wouldn't lift a finger to help yourselves. 
ALYDON: We will not fight. There will be no more wars. Look at our planet. This was once a great world, full of ideas and art and invention. In one day it was destroyed. And you will never find one good reason why we should ever begin destroying everything again. I'm sorry. 
IAN: You're not sorry. You stand here, mumbling a lot of words out of your history. But it means nothing, nothing at all. You carry this around with you. Your history records. Well, it must be valuable to you. Supposing I take it down to the city and try and trade with the Daleks? Perhaps they'd think it valuable enough to exchange for our fluid link. 
ALYDON: I don't believe you'd do it. 
IAN: I would. 
ALYDON: None of us would stop you. 
IAN: If I don't get the fluid link back, the four of us will die. Perhaps the Daleks are more interested in people? Maybe they were holding us to experiment on us? I could take them an alternative. 
(Ian grabs Dyoni by the arm and starts to lead her off. Alydon grabs Ian then punches him) 
IAN: So there is something you'll fight for.

[Experiment chamber]

(A Dalek is whirling round and round) 
DALEK: Help. Cannot control. Cannot control. Help me. Help me. Help! Help! Help! Help! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah!

[Control room]

DALEK [OC]: Emergency. Emergency. All Daleks in section three are incapable of working. 
DALEK 1: Section three? That was the first section to get the anti-radiation drug received from the Thals. 
DALEK 2: Stand by for a general announcement. This is control. All distribution of the anti-radiation drug is to be stopped immediately. The Dalek race has become conditioned to radiation. 
DALEK 1: But if you are right, we are in danger. 
DALEK [OC]: All Daleks in section three are dying. 
DALEK 2: They must be examined immediately. 
DALEK 1: Look, the disease has reached us in here. 
(A Dalek is spinning around on the spot) 
DALEK 2: Then we cannot delay. 
DALEK 1: But what are we to do? Is this the end of the Daleks? 
DALEK 2: We need radiation to survive. So we must increase our supply of radiation. 
DALEK 1: But there is only one way to do that. 
DALEK 2: Exactly. We may have to explode another neutron bomb.

[Thal camp]

(Night has fallen, but Dyoni and Alydon cannot sleep) 
DYONI: Why don't you sleep? 
ALYDON: Presently. 
DYONI: Are you angry with yourself for striking the young man? 
ALYDON: No, I knew he was trying to make me do it. I still couldn't stop myself. Do you despise me for hitting him? 
DYONI: If you hadn't fought him, I think I would have hated you. 
ALYDON: I knew he wouldn't really take you and give you to the Daleks. But I fought him. Oh, I wish Temmosus were here. What would he have said, Dyoni? Which is the most important? To fight and live, or to die without fighting. 
(Barbara and Ganatus have overheard this) 
BARBARA: What will happen now? 
GANATUS: I don't know. We always do what the leader of our race decides for us. He never decides anything without our full approval. 
BARBARA: And if Alydon decides not to help us? Well, we'll have to wait till the morning. What's that light in the sky? It's a reflection from the city, I suppose. 
GANATUS: No, the lake. Some sort of chemical in the water that makes it glow in the moonlight. 
BARBARA: You've been down there? 
GANATUS: Yes. There's horror down there in the swamp. Five of us went there in search of food, and only my brother and I came back. 
BARBARA: What happened to the others? 
GANATUS: Well, we found what was left of one of them. The lake is alive with mutations, bred and crossbred until the original has long been replaced by. I'm sorry, I'm being morbid. 
BARBARA: Oh, I don't mind as long as we're this far away. But I wonder why the Daleks haven't cleaned it out? Killed everything? 
GANATUS: Why should they? Isn't it the perfect defence for the back of a city? Only a fool would attack the city from the lake.

[Control room]

(We are looking through a Dalek eye-piece) 
DALEK 2: Has the anti-radiation drug distribution been stopped? 
DALEK 3: Yes. Only Daleks in section two and three received it. All Daleks in section three have now died. 
DALEK 2: Daleks in section two are to be brought to the sonic chamber. 
DALEK 3: We will direct the air polluted by radiation away from the nuclear reactors into the sonic chamber. 
DALEK 2: And if they do not die, we shall have our answer. 
DALEK 3: But if we need radiation, we can never rebuild the world outside. 
DALEK 1: We do not have to adapt to the environment. We will change the environment to suit us.

[Thal camp]

ALYDON: I have one question to ask of you. If we do not help you, what will you do? 
IAN: We'll find our way into the city, and take back our lost equipment. 
ALYDON: You see, we cannot stand by and let these people die. If we do not help them, it would be the same as if we had killed them ourselves. Well, the way I have reasoned is this. The Daleks are strong and they hate us. And I am sure they will find a way to come out of their city and kill us. So it is not merely a question of whether we go off in a vain search for food and in all probability starve to death. We face death now. In the city is enough food for all of us and all of the Daleks, a hundred times over. My conclusion is this. There is no indignity in being afraid to die. But there is a terrible shame in being afraid to live. If none of you agree with my reasons, then let me go with these people, and I will help you elect a new chief. 
GANATUS: I'll go with you, Alydon. 
THAL: And I. 
THAL 2: Let's start at once. ANTODUS: And I. 
IAN: Thank you. 
(Ganatus has got a map of the area) 
ALYDON: You knew what my decision would be. 
GANATUS: I could always have destroyed it if you'd decided differently. 
DOCTOR: If we get this intelligent anticipation, we shall succeed. Let's see this. Now, what is this area here? 
GANATUS: The swamp. Here are the mountains. This is the far side of the city. I've been into the swamp. It's surrounded by lakes, here, as you see. The lakes are inhabited by all sorts of strange creatures. 
IAN: Can we get into the city this way? 
ALYDON: Over the mountains? 
IAN: Yes. 
GANATUS: That means going through that swamp. 
ALYDON: We can't go through the swamp. It's too dangerous. 
GANATUS: It is dangerous, yes, but I realised last night when I was talking to Barbara that it is undefended. 
ALYDON: Undefended? It's a perfect natural barrier. All those creatures, you know that yourself. 
GANATUS: Yes, I know, but I mean the Daleks won't be on guard there. There's a chance to take them by surprise. Believe me, I'm not happy about this, but it's the best possible chance there is. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. Well, now, I suggest we split into two groups. The one to distract the Daleks on the city wall side, and the others to try and force a way through the mountains. 
IAN: Yes, I think that's the best plan. 
DOCTOR: Are we all agreed? 
ALYDON: Yes. Very well then. That is what we must do.

[Control room]

DALEK 2: The laser scope is transmitting. The quality is poor. What has happened? Has this group broken away? Is there a plan behind it? Why divide their forces? 
DALEK 1: The figures are coming through on the radiation treatment. 
DALEK 2: Discontinue laser scope. 
DALEK 1: There is an improvement. Except for one serious case, all Daleks in section two have shown signs of recovery. 
DALEK 2: Then our position is clear. For us, the drug is a poison. 
DALEK 1: And radiation is still necessary to us. 
DALEK 2: Essential. I want a complete survey of our stock of nuclear materials. I want an estimate of the amount of waste matter from the nuclear reactors.

[Swamp]

ANTODUS: We'll never get through. 
GANATUS: Yes, we will. 
ANTODUS: What makes you think it'll be any different to the first time. 
GANATUS: At least we know what to expect. 
ANTODUS: But the others don't. 
GANATUS: We promised Alydon we'd find a way through the mountains, and that's what we're going to do. 
ANTODUS: You'd never get the others to follow you if you told them what happened the first time. It's your duty to tell them. How we watched Amezus dragged beneath the waters of the lake, while you and I ran in terror when 
GANATUS: That's enough. We're going on, Antodus. You keep your fears to yourself. I don't want you upsetting the others. Is that clear? 
ANTODUS: Yes. 
GANATUS: Well, is it? 
ANTODUS: Yes! 
(Antodus moves on, Ian arrives) 
GANATUS: Well, this is the swamp. From now on it's going to be rather uncomfortable. 
IAN: Yes, I see what you mean. 
GANATUS: The ground's very uneven. Sometimes rock, sometimes thick mud. You'll have to watch how you walk. I think it'll be a wise plan to find a place to rest for the night. 
IAN: Yes. We've made very good time. It's only taken four hours to get here from the edge of the forest. That leaves us with two and a half days to go through the mountains to the city. 
GANATUS: If there is a way through. 
IAN: We'll find a way. I'll go and give Barbara a hand. 
GANATUS: I'm surprised you let her come. 
IAN: I'd be more surprised if I could have stopped her. How are you doing? 
(Barbara is wearing a pair of the Thal's leather trousers with cut outs on the outside of the legs, and sandals) 
BARBARA: Fine. Oh, I'm glad the mountaineering's over. 
IAN: There'll be some more once we get through this little lot. 
BARBARA: We're going through there? 
IAN: Well, we must. We've got a deadline with the Doctor in two and a half days, and we've got to make it. 
BARBARA: Well I think we could all do with a rest. 
IAN: No, we'll keep up with the others. They'll be breaking camp soon. Now take care. Watch where you put your feet. All right? 
(A little further on) 
GANATUS: This looks like a fairly dry section. 
IAN: Yes, this'll do. 
GANATUS: Right, we'll make camp here. See if we can gather up some dry branches. 
IAN: All right. 
GANATUS: It'll make it more comfortable to sleep on. Barbara, you see to the food. I'll get the fire going. 
BARBARA: Right. 
GANATUS: At least it might stop some of these, these things from bothering us. 
(As they settle down for their meal, the swamp gets very noisy. Ian washes his face in the water. Something with glowing eyes rises up in front of him and he runs back to the camp) 
BARBARA: What was it? Did you see anything? 
IAN: Yes, it was a 
GANATUS: Kristas, stand guard here, will you? 
KRISTAS: Right. 
GANATUS: We'll take the first watch between us. 
IAN: I'm all right, really. 
GANATUS: Yes, I know, but I think you two Earth people should get as much sleep as possible. We're more used to this kind of life. It's over a year since we left our own plateau in search of a new source of food. I'd almost forgotten what it was like to stay in one place and enjoy it. I suppose there'll be an end to it one day. 
(Next morning) 
GANATUS: Time to move, my friend. 
IAN: You let me sleep. 
GANATUS: Yes. 
IAN: Why didn't you wake me? 
ELYON: Ganatus. 
GANATUS: What's the matter? 
ELYON: Come and see what I found by the lake. 
GANATUS: Right. 
IAN: Hold on. I'll come with you. Morning. 
BARBARA: Morning. Oh, for a feather pillow and a spring mattress. 
(By the lake) 
GANATUS: What did you see? 
ELYON: Over there. 
(Pipes running from the rocks into the lake) 
IAN: We were right. The Daleks do get their water from the lake. 
GANATUS: But how would it get to the city from there? 
IAN: Well, there must be a way. I mean, the Daleks aren't very mobile. They must have cut a pathway through there to work on the pipeline. 
GANATUS: How long do you think it will take us to reach there? 
ELYON: Most of today. If we could cross the lake we could reach it much quicker. 
IAN: I'm sorry, that's one way I'm not going. 
ELYON: Well, it would be dangerous, certainly. The lake is full of mutations. 
GANATUS: No, we must go round. 
IAN: Yes, and we ought to try and get there before the sun goes down. 
ELYON: Well I'll just go and fill the water bags. (a little away from Ian) There's no point in trying to cross the lake, you think? 
GANATUS: No. No, he's right. Anyway, think how long it would take to build a light raft. 
(Back at the camp) 
IAN: Barbara, we saw some pipes going into the lake. 
BARBARA: So we can go through? 
IAN: Maybe. With a bit of luck, eh? Thanks. (for the hot drink) Mmm. Good. 
BARBARA: Where's Elyon? 
GANATUS: He's gone to fill the water bags. He won't be long. 
(We see a maelstrom open up in the lake, and then everyone hears a scream) 
GANATUS: Stay here.

Episode Six - The Ordeal

(At the lakeside, the water bags are floating and the maelstrom is diminishing) 
ANTODUS: What is it? What's happened to Elyon? 
IAN: There's nothing we can do here. 
BARBARA: Ian? 
ANTODUS: Did Elyon fall in? What happened? 
GANATUS: It must have happened very quickly. Come on now. We must reach the cliffs by tonight.

[Forest edge]

(Susan is using the binocular glasses to look at the city. Dyoni updates the map with information. They are trying to hide behind a rock) 
SUSAN: There are four roads that lead off from the main square, going north, south, east and west. 
ALYDON: The main ventilators seem to be over in this section. 
DOCTOR: Hmm. 
SUSAN: Oh, that's wrong. It goes down there and up. 
DOCTOR: Can you see any way in at all? 
ALYDON: No. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you'll allow me, will you? 
(The Doctor takes the glasses) 
SUSAN: Grandfather, get down. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. Now, the things we have to put out of action is the radio and television waves. They've obviously got complete coverage in and around the city. 
ALYDON: They don't leave much to chance. 
DOCTOR: We must presume they don't leave anything to chance. 
DYONI: If they have pictures of the entrance to the city, how can we do anything? 
DOCTOR: Then we must stop the pictures. Remember, the Daleks aren't very mobile. 
SUSAN: Yes, we do have speed on our side. 
DOCTOR: And there's always value in surprise. I know it looks difficult, but we must try it, my friends. Yes, we must. 
ALYDON: Yes. I wish I knew what they were planning for us.

[Control room]

DALEK 2: The report for the neutron bomb is prepared. 
DALEK 1: Let us hear it. 
DALEK [OC]: Report on neutron bomb to cover five hundred square miles. Time to construct, twenty three days. 
DALEK 1: Is that the shortest possible time? 
DALEK [OC]: Yes. 
DALEK 1: Very well. It is too long. 
DALEK 2: We must abandon the idea of a neutron bomb. 
DALEK 1: We must find another way of spreading radiation.

[Cave]

GANATUS: It's getting narrower. 
BARBARA: Oh, it's like all the other caves. Just tails off into a dead end. 
GANATUS: There's a gloomy thought for you. 
BARBARA: I wonder if Ian's doing any better? 
GANATUS: When did we arrange to meet him and the others? 
BARBARA: Oh, we ought to be going back now. 
GANATUS: Let's make sure this is impossible first. I must have had sixth sense. Look at that. Pity. Well, let's go back and try one of the other ways. 
BARBARA: No, wait a minute. 
GANATUS: Can you see something? 
BARBARA: No, stand still for a minute. There, can you hear it? The sound of water. 
GANATUS: Yes. Barbara, look! There's a passageway here. 
BARBARA: Well, that won't be easy. 
GANATUS: It's a good job we haven't been over-eating recently. It's going to be a long crawl. Well, we won't use one of the customs of your planet. 
BARBARA: And what's that? 
GANATUS: Ladies first. 
BARBARA: I should hope not. 
GANATUS: Pay the rope out as I move in, will you? 
BARBARA: Yes, all right. But be careful. Remember what Ian said. We're not to take any chances. 
GANATUS: Do you always do what Ian says? 
BARBARA: No, I don't. 
GANATUS: Well, let me have the torch then. Unless you think you 
BARBARA: No, no. Your need is greater than mine. 
(Ganatus crawls into the opening) 
GANATUS [OC]: Barbara? 
BARBARA: Yes? 
GANATUS: There seems to be a drop of about thirty feet or so. I'm going down. 
BARBARA: Well, be careful. 
GANATUS [OC]: Tie your end of the rope around a rock or something, will you? 
BARBARA: Yes, all right. (she uses a boulder by her feet) Ready. 
GANATUS [OC]: Right. 
(But as the rope plays out, the boulder drags and her foot gets thrown off the rope. Ganatus falls) 
BARBARA: Ganatus? Ganatus! 
IAN: What's happened? 
BARBARA: I couldn't hold onto it. 
IAN: Where's Ganatus? 
BARBARA: It slipped through my fingers. He's down here, look. 
GANATUS: (bottom of shaft) Barbara? 
IAN [OC]: All right this end. Are you hurt? 
GANATUS: No, I'm not. 
ANTODUS: Is my brother hurt? 
BARBARA: No, he isn't, but it was my fault. The rope slipped off the rock. 
IAN: The rope, Antodus. 
GANATUS: Barbara? 
IAN: Are you sure you're all right? 
GANATUS: Yes. What happened to Barbara? 
IAN: She's okay. Don't worry. Hang on a minute. I'm bringing another rope down to you.

[Cavern]

GANATUS: It would be better if you came down here. There's a big cavern with lots of tunnels going off it. Unless you've found anything else, this seems a fair chance. 
IAN [OC]: No, we haven't. Hang on, we'll be with you in a couple of minutes. 
GANATUS: Good. It looks as though it may have been a lucky fall.

[Control room]

DALEK [OC]: Rangerscopes are recording great activity amongst the Thal people. 
DALEK 1: Are there pictures? 
DALEK [OC]: No, reception is bad. 
DALEK 1: They are attacking our instruments. 
DALEK 2: We must keep alert. 
DALEK 1: Yes. Concentrate all power of rangerscopes and vibrascopes on all entrances to the city. 
(The Thals are using metal to reflect the sunlight back to the city)

[City wall]

DOCTOR: It looks as if my plan has worked. 
ALYDON: We can't keep up this light reflection for long. 
DOCTOR: Never mind. It gives us a better chance to get into the city unnoticed. 
SUSAN: We can't be sure of that, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I know it's risky, but, well, we mustn't diddle about here. Now, I want to get to the east side of that antennae. 
ALYDON: Doctor, look. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
ALYDON: According to the map, we should be moving further to our left, in that direction. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I see. Well you go ahead, will you? Go along, child. Yes, we'll show them a thing or two.

[Cavern ledge]

IAN: So far, so good. It seems to be broadening out a bit. 
GANATUS: Who knows, it may stop being impossible. 
BARBARA: Just become unbearable. 
IAN: Well, at least we can breathe in here. 
GANATUS: We seem to be travelling more or less in a straight line. 
IAN: Yes, I think we are. 
KRISTAS: I'll take the fire. 
IAN: Oh, thank you. 
KRISTAS: Shall I lead on then? 
IAN: Yes, I suppose you might as well. We'll have a rest in a minute. 
ANTODUS: Ganatus. I want to go back. 
GANATUS: What for? 
ANTODUS: I can't go on any more. 
GANATUS: You must. 
ANTODUS: No. We're going deeper, deeper all the time. We'll be trapped in the mountain, I know we will. Please, Ganatus, let me go back. 
GANATUS: You can't. 
ANTODUS: But you don't really need me, not really. I could, well, I could go back and signal to the others that we've managed to get as far as we have. 
GANATUS: Antodus, we go on together. 
ANTODUS: Why? Why are you making me do all these things? Even if we do get through, we'll never defeat the Daleks. Ganatus, we're all going to be killed. 
GANATUS: We can't turn back now. 
ANTODUS: The others can't, but we could. Listen, they're going to die anyway. We could just go back and tell the others that the Daleks killed them. 
GANATUS: What are you talking about? You must go back. 
ANTODUS: I'm not going on. 
GANATUS: You are. You must. (there's a scuffle, and Antodus bangs his head) Antodus? I'm sorry. Are you hurt? Ian! 
(There is a rock fall behind the group) 
IAN: Is he hurt? 
GANATUS: A rock hit him. It would have hit me, but he pushed me aside. He was very brave. 
IAN: Well, I hope he hasn't cut his head. 
ANTODUS: I'm all right. 
GANATUS: Ian, we can't go back the way we came. We must go on now.

[Control room]

DALEK [OC]: Emergency. Emergency. Reaction on the vibrascopes. 
DALEK 1: Where? 
DALEK [OC]: Section fifteen, city wall. 
DALEK 2: Shall I redirect the rangerscopes? 
DALEK 1: No. If we track them by their vibrations, we can take them by surprise.

[City wall]

(Susan has found a panel on a wall) 
SUSAN: Hey, Grandfather, look. 
DOCTOR: Yes? 
SUSAN: Is this what you want? 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, a single cable. The whole city is powered by static electricity. 
ALYDON: Well how do you know that? 
DOCTOR: The single wire, you see. Round here, there, see? And there. That must be the answer. 
SUSAN: Well it leads up to the antennae. 
ALYDON: Well, it certainly goes in that direction, but I can't see it all. 
SUSAN: I wonder if I can open this box. There aren't any hinges on it. Oh, that's it. Look, look, it slides up. 
DOCTOR: Ah, good girl. Now, just take it over there. That's it. Now, look out. 
(He breaks the internal glass panel) 
SUSAN: The thing is, how are we going to cut the wire now it's exposed without getting a terrific shock? 
ALYDON: Look, we can't wait around here too long. 
DOCTOR: No, just a minute. Now, you go and tell your friends to stop flashing the light on the antennae. Because for all we know, the Daleks might have a beam to throw on them, paralyse them, kill them. 
ALYDON: But I can't leave you two here. 
DOCTOR: We shall be all right. Now, go along, and tell them to move their position from time to time. Now hurry, please. 
ALYDON: Very well, then. But don't waste time here. I'll come back for you if I can. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes. We shall be back before then. Now go. Dear, dear, dear, that young man gets so agitated. Now, I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll short-circuit it to another conductor. Let me have the key of the ship, Susan, will you? The key of the ship, dear. 
SUSAN: Oh, what a good idea. Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. I can always make another one if necessary. 
SUSAN: Of course. 
(The key is on a chain around her neck. He drops it into the wall panel) 
DOCTOR: Now, the power's running away. That'll teach the Daleks to meddle in our affairs. 
SUSAN: What about this one? 
(Another small panel with a revolving disc) 
DOCTOR: Well, of course. 
(He breaks the glass, and loops the chain up to connect to the panel)
DOCTOR: Watch it. 
(A monitor goes out in the control room) 
DOCTOR: Now, we've shorted it, you see. So something must have gone somewhere else. The extent of the damage, of course, we don't know yet. 
SUSAN: Look, Grandfather, this is marvellous, but they must have a fault locator somewhere. We must get away from here. 
DOCTOR: But, my dear child, don't you realise what I've done? A few simple tools 
SUSAN: Yes, but we mustn't waste time. 
DOCTOR: A superior brain. 
SUSAN: We must go now! 
DOCTOR: But, child, look 
(He turns to see a phalanx of Daleks trapping them)

[Cavern ledge]

(They have come to a gap in the ledge) 
IAN: Look out. No place for a quiet stroll, is it? 
GANATUS: It looks pretty wide. 
IAN: Yes, and deep. Well, you might as well take a rest while we sort this one out. No point in going that way, it widens out. There's no foothold at all on this side. There's a ledge over there, look. About two to three feet, would you say? 
GANATUS: There seems to be some sort of cleft in the rock face there. 
IAN: Yes, I think you're right. We'll have to get over there. 
GANATUS: How about going down this side on a rope, and trying to climb the other? 
IAN: Yes, well, see how deep it is. Hold the torch. A pebble. 
(Five seconds until the splash) 
GANATUS: How do we do it? 
IAN: We jump. 
GANATUS: There's not much space to land in. 
IAN: No. 
GANATUS: Ah, well, I'll go 
IAN: I'll. You go and tell them we're going to jump. 
GANATUS: We're going to jump it. 
(Ian ties a rope around his waist) 
IAN: Shine the torch on that ledge. Keep clear of me when I run, and give me plenty of rope. 
BARBARA: Good luck. 
(He makes it) 
IAN: All right. Ganatus, you come over next and we'll explore that cleft in the rock. 
GANATUS: Right. 
IAN: Quite firm. I think there's just about enough room for two of us. 
GANATUS: (throws another rope) Take up the slack, will you? 
IAN: Right. 
BARBARA: Good luck. 
GANATUS: Ready? 
IAN: Take a good long run. (he does) Good jump. You should have come first. 
GANATUS: Now, I'll take a look at this cleft. The torch? Pay it out slowly. 
IAN: Right. 
GANATUS: It's all right. There's a handhold just here. (he disappears from sight) [OC] A little more rope. It goes wider. It seems to be some sort of a tunnel. I don't need the rope any more. Bring the others over. 
IAN: Right. Rope coming over.

[Control room]

(The Doctor and Susan are sitting cross-legged on the floor) 
DALEK 1: You have destroyed our videoscope and one of our lifts. 
DOCTOR: And you in turn killed the Thal leader in your ambush. And you will be responsible for more deaths unless you help these people. 
DALEK 1: The only interest we have in the Thals is their total extermination. 
SUSAN: What do you mean? 
DALEK 1: Tomorrow the atmosphere will be bombarded by the radiation from our nuclear reactors. 
SUSAN: Why are you doing this? 
DOCTOR: That's sheer murder. 
DALEK 1: No, extermination. 
DOCTOR: But you must listen to reason. Please, you must. 
DALEK 1: Without radiation, the Dalek race is ended. We need it as you and the Thals need air. 
ALL: Tomorrow, we will be the masters of planet Skaro.

[Cavern ledge]

(Barbara makes her leap into Ian's arms) 
BARBARA: Oh, I thought I wouldn't make it. 
IAN: You did well. Just get your breath back for a minute. 
BARBARA: I'm all right. Ian? 
IAN: Oh, no, not that way. Now stay still. Give me your other hand. You've got to come back. Now, swing. Now this time, face the rock. And reach round with that arm. Reach higher. Can you feel? 
BARBARA: I, I can't reach. 
IAN: Higher. Go on. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: Now, let go of my hand and swing yourself round. Go on. (she disappears into the cleft) All right? 
BARBARA [OC[: Yes. 
KRISTAS: I'll throw the fire. 
IAN: Right. Rope coming over. 
KRISTAS: Will you go next, Antodus? 
ANTODUS: No, you go on. 
KRISTAS: Very well. 
(Kristas does his leap) 
IAN: You made it look easy. Got the grip? 
KRISTAS: Yes, I'm clear. Rope coming over. 
(Antodus makes no attempt to catch it) 
IAN: Sorry. Bad throw, my fault. Move back from the edge. 
ANTODUS: I can't do it. 
IAN: Move back from the edge and catch this rope. Ready? Coming now. Good. Now, tie it round yourself. Tight! Now give yourself a good long run and jump. I'm ready whenever you are. 
(Antodus jumps, but doesn't get a good foot hold and slips back into the crevasse. Ian is pulled off his feet and is hanging onto a rock for dear life) 
ANTODUS [OC]: Help me! Help me! I can't hold on. I can't hold on!

Episode Seven - The Rescue

[Cavern ledge]

(Ian is losing his grip when Ganatus comes to help) 
GANATUS: I daren't let go with my other hand. 
IAN: Antodus, get a grip on the rock face. Take the weight off the rope. 
ANTODUS: It's too smooth. 
IAN: Stop it, you fool! 
GANATUS: I'm losing you. 
IAN: Sweat on my hands. 
GANATUS: It's no good, Ian. 
IAN: Call the others. 
GANATUS: Kristas! Kristas! 
IAN: Kristas! 
(So Antodus takes the weight off the rope by cutting it, and falling to his death) 
GANATUS: Antodus.

[Control room]

(Susan and the Doctor are fastened hand and foot to the walls. The first lines of dialogue are overlapping) 
DALEK: What we need for life means death for the Thals. 
DOCTOR: You could live in the city and the others could. But why do you have to destroy? Can't you use your brains for right? 
DALEK: Only one race can survive. 
DOCTOR: What are you planning? 
DALEK: We wish to escape captivity. Go out and rebuild the planet Skaro. Our oxygen distributors will be subjected to waste radiation by the ejector capsule. 
DOCTOR: Nothing can live outside if you do that. Nothing. 
DALEK: Except the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: When do you intend to put this into operation? 
DALEK: Now. 
DOCTOR: This senseless, evil killing.

[Tunnel]

KRISTAS: There's been a fall of rock. The way is blocked. 
IAN: Did you look all round it? 
KRISTAS: Yes. There's no way through. 
GANATUS: Then we'll have to go back. We came this far. We've done our best and more. First Elyon died, and now my brother. For what? Can't you see there isn't any sense in it anymore. 
BARBARA: We can't give up now. 
GANATUS: What is it that you want us to do? 
IAN: We must go back and find another way. 
GANATUS: Oh, why don't we just give up? 
IAN: Because your brother died, for one thing. He gave us a chance. 
GANATUS: My brother didn't want us to come. He said we'd all die. 
(The fire in the storm lantern starts to fade) 
BARBARA: What's the matter with it? 
KRISTAS: I don't know. Dirt's got into it, I expect. And if we're going back, we'll have to go back now. We can't cross the chasm without light. 
BARBARA: Well, we still have the torch. 
KRISTAS: That's weak too. 
IAN: Can we use it sparingly? Well, turn it off, Kristas. 
KRISTAS: Right. 
IAN: Wait a minute. There's a light coming in here. Where's it coming from? Where's the light coming from? Here. Give me a hand. 
BARBARA: Can you see anything? 
GANATUS: What is it? 
(Ian removes a few rocks and sees - ) 
IAN: We're through. We must have been travelling under the pipes all the time. We're through.

[Forest edge]

DYONI: Alydon. The antenna hasn't moved for some time. 
ALYDON: No. The Doctor must have succeeded in putting it out of action. 
DYONI: But why haven't they returned? 
ALYDON: The Daleks must have captured them. Now listen, everybody. The way to the city is clear. Now is the time to attack. We may be farmers, but have we forgotten how to fight?

[Control room]

DALEK 1: Power down to half. 
DALEK 2: Down to half. 
DALEK 1: Seal off nuclear waste disposer. 
DALEK 2: Sealing complete. 
DALEK 1: Begin radiation redirection to distribution capsule. 
SUSAN: Can't we stop them? Can't we do anything? 
DOCTOR: Just a moment. I haven't told you how we came to this planet. 
DALEK 1: It does not matter now. 
DOCTOR: But it does. I have a ship capable of crossing the barriers of space and time. Surely this would be invaluable to you? 
DALEK 1: A ship? What do you mean? 
DOCTOR: A machine. 
DALEK 1: I do not believe you. 
DOCTOR: But I have. 
SUSAN: It's true. We have. 
DALEK 1: You are not capable of creating such a machine. 
DOCTOR: And you took a part of my ship away from one of my companions. The young man. 
DALEK 1: What did it look like? 
DOCTOR: A small rod with metal at either end. It belongs to my ship. A fluid link containing mercury. Examine it for yourselves. You will see it's part of a complicated machine. 
DALEK 1: Yes, I have it here. 
DOCTOR: What if we show you the ship? Explain it to you. Help you to build another? 
DALEK 1: A bargain for your lives? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
DALEK 1: Where is this machine? 
DOCTOR: In the petrified forest outside the city. 
DALEK 1: Good. When the neutron operation has been completed, we will find a way to travel outside the city limits. 
DOCTOR: No. 
DALEK 1: We will examine your machine. 
DOCTOR: No. Not unless you stop what you're doing. Otherwise I won't explain its secrets to you and its philosophy of movement. 
DALEK 1: Now we know of the machine, we can examine it for ourselves. 
DOCTOR: But you can't operate it without me. 
DALEK 1: Every problem has a solution. 
DALEK [OC]: Vibration locator records movement inside the city wall. 
DALEK 1: Details. 
DALEK [OC]: Disturbance is too great. 
DALEK 1: Alert Daleks in Section one. The Thals are entering the city. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, they're coming. 
DOCTOR: Can they get here in time?

[Corridor]

(Ian, Barbara, Ganatus and Kristas are making their way along a metal corridor) 
IAN: Now where are we? 
BARBARA: I have no idea. I have some experience in these corridors. They all look alike. 
IAN: Yes, we could go back to the lift, but. Get back! 
(A Dalek on patrol stops to listen to the announcement) 
DALEK [OC]: Alert. The Thals are entering the city. All Daleks in section one to level one. Immediate. Immediate. 
(It trundles off) 
IAN: Alydon and the Thals must be in the city. We must find the control room.

[Control room]

DALEK 2: Interior videoscopes are recording movement on level eight. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, look. Look, they found a way through. 
DALEK 1: All Daleks on level eight. Urgent. 
(Ian smashes the spy camera) 
DALEK 1: The Thals have penetrated to level eight. Immediate action. Immediate action. 
DALEK 2: How did they get into the city? 
DALEK 3: Capsule ready to go critical. 
DALEK 1: Stand by. 
DALEK 3: Standing by, ready. 
DALEK 1: The last stage of the operation is about to begin. 
DOCTOR: Stop it, please. 
DALEK 1: Nothing can stop the Daleks. Begin countdown. One hundred. 
DALEK 3: Beginning now.

[Corridor]

GANATUS: Alydon. 
ALYDON: Ganatus. Have you found the Doctor? 
BARBARA: Well, isn't he with you? 
ALYDON: No, he must have been captured by the Daleks. And Susan. 
IAN: But the Daleks know you and the Thals are in the city. 
ALYDON: We split ourselves into groups, but without the Doctor we didn't know what to look for. 
IAN: We must find that control room. 
BARBARA: We must find the Doctor and Susan. 
IAN: Barbara, first and foremost we must find the control room and knock it out. 
ALYDON: And Antodus? 
GANATUS: Yes, he died bravely. 
DALEK [OC]: Daleks go to control room immediately. All Daleks to level ten. 
ALYDON: But this is level nine. We must be near. 
KRISTAS: We've got to go on. 
BARBARA: There's a lift back there. It's only one floor up. 
DALEK [OC]: All Daleks to level ten immediately. Corridor intersections on all levels other than ten will be sealed now. 
IAN: Get the door, quick! (but it closes) That one. 
ALYDON: You first. 
(Barbara scrambles through) 
BARBARA: There's another one. 
ALYDON: Quickly, Barbara, get to it. 
GANATUS: Barbara!

[Control room]

DALEK 3: Fifty two. 
DALEK 2: The Thals are blocking the intersections from sealing on level nine. 
DALEK 3: Fifty one. 
DALEK 1: Increase power. Emergency. Increase power. 
DALEK 3: Forty nine. Forty eight.

[Corridor]

(Barbara is caught under a closing door) 
IAN: Quick. Wait a minute, I'll take the strain. Barbara, try and slide yourself out. 
BARBARA: I can't move. 
GANATUS: (who has also wedged himself under the door) They're pressing down harder. 
IAN: They're increasing the pressure. Barbara, you must try and roll out. Try and free yourself. 
KRISTAS: Just get my hands under. 
BARBARA: I'm through. 
IAN: Alydon. Right. You go next.

[Control room]

DALEK: Forty six. Forty five. Forty four. Forty three. Forty two. 
(They shoot a young Thal who breaks in)

[Corridor]

(Ian is the last to crawl under the door) 
GANATUS: Try, Ian. It's crushing us both. Come on.

[Control room]

DALEK: Forty. Thirty nine. Thirty eight. Thirty seven. Thirty six. Thirty five. Thirty four. Thirty three. 
(Ian is leading his group up the corridor, dodging Daleks as they come) 
DALEK: Thirty two. Thirty one. Thirty. Twenty nine. Twenty eight. Twenty seven. Twenty six. Twenty five. Twenty four. Twenty three. Twenty two. Twenty one. Twenty. 
(Ian and Alydon see Susan and the Doctor) 
DALEK: Nineteen. Eighteen. Seventeen. 
(They dash over to the alcove where they are shackled to the wall) 
DALEK: Sixteen. Fifteen. Fourteen. 
(Barbara throws a rock at a Dalek then gets away) 
DALEK: Thirteen. 
DALEK 1: Follow and kill her. 
DALEK: Twelve. Eleven. Ten. 
(The Dalek gets blindfolded and grabbed by the group) 
DALEK 2: Trapped. Help me. Trapped. 
(Ian and Alydon free the Doctor and Susan, and they make a run for it as Thals pounce the Daleks and get shot for it) 
DALEK: Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Five. Four. 
DALEK 3: Reinforcements. Overpowered. Reinforcements. Quickly. Quickly. 
(A Dalek gets rammed into a control panel, with satisfactory results) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, come here. 
IAN: Doctor! Doctor, I think they're dying. 
DALEK 1: Power going. 
DOCTOR: They were about to spread radiation into the air. 
IAN: We've knocked out their source of power, I tell you. Look! 
(And he kicks one across the room) 
SUSAN: Barbara, is he all right? 
BARBARA: Yes. He's very badly hurt, but he's alive. 
DALEK 1: Listen to me. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
DALEK 1: (very slowly) Stop our power from wasting or it will be the end of the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Even if I wanted to, I don't know how. 
ALYDON: It's finished. The final war. Five hundred years of destruction end in this. 
DOCTOR: No doubt you will have other wars to fight. Chesterton, come along, my boy. We've got work to do. I want to look at the reactors and see if there's any radiation leakage. 
IAN: Yes, and get the ship working again, Doctor. 
(holds up the fluid link) 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh, yes, yes, yes, of course. Come along. Come along. 
ALYDON: Kristas, you all right? Here, let's get him up to the air. All this machinery. What good is it to us? None of us knows the first thing about it. 
BARBARA: Well, you must experiment. These Dalek inventions should be of some use to you. 
SUSAN: The Daleks have developed food by artificial sunlight. You've got everything you need now. 
GANATUS: Yes. If only there'd been some other way.

[Thal camp]

(Alydon is examining a piece of machinery) 
DOCTOR: This is what they call a compensator, my friend. 
ALYDON: Which is? 
DOCTOR: The whole of it. It's useless. Throw it away. Forget it. Unless you want to live in a shell like our dead friends. 
ALYDON: Where do you get your knowledge, Doctor? You know, there never seems to have been time to ask, but we don't really know where you come from, or why. 
DOCTOR: To rebuild a whole new world. How I envy you. 
ALYDON: But you must stay and help us. We could learn from you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no. I'm afraid I'm much too old to be a pioneer. Although I was once amongst my own people. 
ALYDON: Well then, stay and advise us. Please. 
DOCTOR: No, no, thank you. We're much too far away from home, my granddaughter and I. Thank you all the same. It's a nice gesture on your part. You know, this soil is not quite so barren as you think. I've been making tests, and even you might live to see and hear the birds amongst the trees. You wanted advice you said. I never give it. Never. But I might just say this to you. Always search for truth. My truth is in the stars and yours is here. 
DYONI: Won't you rest with us? 
DOCTOR: No, I'm afraid it's out of the question. But I might visit your grandchildren to find if they've learned the secrets, and if they have, well, who knows, I might live with them. 
(Susan runs in, wearing a Thal cape) 
SUSAN: Ta-da! Look, Grandfather, isn't it terrific? Thank you, Dyoni. 
IAN: What are you up to, Susan? 
SUSAN: It's a present from Dyoni. Isn't it gorgeous? 
IAN: It's lovely. By the way, Doctor, have you fitted the fluid link? 
DOCTOR: Not yet, but I have it safely here. And there's no need to worry about mercury, young man. 
IAN: Good. Well, goodbye, Dyoni.
DYONI Goodbye. 
IAN: Goodbye, Alydon. 
ALYDON: Goodbye, Ian. 
DOCTOR: Come along, my child. I'm hungry. 
SUSAN: Goodbye, Dyoni. 
DYONI: Goodbye. 
SUSAN: Thank you. (hugs Alydon) Goodbye. 
IAN: Goodbye, Ganatus. 
GANATUS: Goodbye, Ian. 
IAN: Barbara. 
BARBARA: Right. 
DOCTOR: Oh, how stupid of me. I very nearly forgot my specimens. Oh, your hand, sir. (shakes it) Goodbye. 
ALYDON: Goodbye, Doctor. 
BARBARA: Well, Ganatus? 
GANATUS: Well, Barbara. (hands over material) The dress you make from this won't be suitable for swamps and caverns. 
BARBARA: Well, that's a good thing. 
GANATUS: Yes. 
BARBARA: It's beautiful. Thank you very much. Thank you for everything. 
GANATUS: I wish 
SUSAN [OC]: Barbara, we're waiting. 
(Ganatus kisses Barbara's hand. She kisses him on the lips and goes into the Tardis) 
ALYDON: Come along, Ganatus. 
DYONI: Don't be sad, Ganatus. 
GANATUS: I won't be. But I don't think I'll ever forget her. 
(The Tardis dematerialises)

[Tardis]

(The Doctor is adjusting controls, when suddenly the Tardis judders. Everyone is knocked off their feet and it goes dark)

[Tardis]

(The Tardis is in flight after leaving Skaro, when there is bang, it shakes and everyone falls over. It goes dark. We rejoin the action with the lights back on. The Doctor is lying on the floor, Ian slumped in a chair, Susan draped over the console. Barbara is the only one awake.) 
BARBARA: Mister Chesterton? Ian Chesterton? I thought 
(Susan wakes. She looks almost drunk) 
SUSAN: I know you. Ow! 
BARBARA: Have you hurt your head? 
SUSAN: Yes, terribly. 
BARBARA: Well, let me look at it. 
SUSAN: My neck hurts too. It's going away now. That's better. I couldn't think where I was 
BARBARA: Do you want to sit down? 
SUSAN: No, it's all right. Grandfather! 
BARBARA: He's cut his head open. 
SUSAN: I've got some ointment. 
BARBARA: Well get some water too. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
(As she stands up again, Susan grabs her neck in pain, then sees Ian in the chair) 
SUSAN: Who's that? Oughtn't we to go and help him? 
BARBARA: I don't like the look of this cut at all. 
SUSAN: Water. What happened? 
BARBARA: I don't know. Well, go on. 
(Ian has woken, and is standing by the chair) 
IAN: You're working late tonight, Miss Wright. Can I have a glass of water? 
BARBARA: Susan's fetching some. 
IAN: Susan Foreman, you mean? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: What's he doing there? 
BARBARA: Oh, he's cut his head. Are you feeling all right? 
IAN: Dizzy. Shouldn't we help him? His heart seems all right, and his breathing's quite regular. I don't think that cut's as deep as you think. 
BARBARA: What do we do if his skull's fractured? 
IAN: I don't think it's as bad as that. 
DOCTOR: I can't take you back, Susan. I can't. 
IAN: He's rambling. 
BARBARA: The ship! The Tardis! 
IAN: What? 
(Susan in in the next room. She has cut a length of bandage, and is now at the liquids dispenser) 
SUSAN: Empty? 
(She gets a sachet of something from it) 
SUSAN: That's funny. 
(Susan returns to the console room and shrieks. The main doors are open) 
SUSAN: The doors! Well, they can't open on their own. They can't! 
IAN: Perhaps he did it. 
SUSAN: Grandfather? 
IAN: Did it before he cut his head open. 
SUSAN: No, he wouldn't. 
BARBARA: They must have been forced open when we crashed. 
IAN: Crashed? 
SUSAN: No, the ship can't crash. It's impossible. Grandfather. Grandfather! 
BARBARA: Susan, it's all right. 
SUSAN: No. No, there's something here. Inside the ship. 
IAN: What? 
BARBARA: But that's not possible. 
SUSAN: You feel it, don't you? 
BARBARA: Give me the bandage. What's this? 
SUSAN: The coloured part is the ointment. You'll find the colour disappearing. It goes into the wound. When the bandage is completely white, it means the wound is healed. 
(Ian walks towards the open doors, and they close in front of him) 
IAN: Did you do that? 
SUSAN: We haven't moved. 
(He walks back to the console, and the doors open again. Towards them and they shut) 
SUSAN: I'm going to try the controls. 
BARBARA: Be careful, Susan. 
(Susan stops, screams No! and collapses next to the Doctor) 
IAN: She's fainted. But she was all right a minute ago. 
BARBARA: Yes, and a while before that, you were all unconscious. 
IAN: What's going on here? 
BARBARA: He's beginning to stir. Take the girl and put her to bed. 
(Ian hauls Susan up and over his shoulder) 
IAN: If anything happens, let me know. 
BARBARA: Well, what could happen? 
IAN: I don't know. 
(Ian leaves, carrying Susan) 
BARBARA: How are you? 
DOCTOR: My head. 
BARBARA: You cut your forehead, but you'll be all right. 
DOCTOR: It hurts here. 
BARBARA: Where? Show me. I can't see anything. There's no bump or bruise or anything. 
DOCTOR: No, I was hit on the back of the neck.

[Room]

(Ian lets an S shaped recliner down from the wall and puts Susan on it) 
IAN: Water. 
(He goes to the dispenser) 
IAN: Empty? 
(Removes a sachet from the slot) 
IAN: All right. 
(He puts some of the water on his handkerchief and goes back to Susan. She is sitting up and holding a pair of scissors) 
IAN: What are you doing? 
SUSAN: No. Who are you? 
IAN: Susan. You don't need that. 
(He reaches for the knife, and she stabs at him, then, groaning in pain, repeatedly stabs the recliner instead before collapsing again) 
(The Doctor is sitting on a bench by the wall, and the scissors are on a table) 
DOCTOR: No, no, the ship must have stopped and put us down somewhere. 
BARBARA: But where? Where are we? 
DOCTOR: Oh, all these questions, Miss Wright. Please. 
BARBARA: You don't know, do you? You're just guessing, aren't you?

[Tardis]

(Barbara goes back into the console room) 
BARBARA: Can we have some light in here? 
DOCTOR [OC]: What for?

[Room]

IAN: Have you any idea where we are, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Where is not as important as why, young man. I must go and check the fault locator again. 
IAN: Everything's in a mess. 
DOCTOR: You didn't touch the controls, did you? 
IAN: No.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Or you? 
(Barbara glares at him and goes into the room) 
DOCTOR: I know Susan wouldn't. I'm worried about that child. Temporary lapse of memory.

[Room]

BARBARA: I was thinking. 
IAN: Yes? 
DOCTOR: Well, yes, yes, anything may help. 
BARBARA: Do you think something could have got into the ship? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. 
BARBARA: When the doors were open? 
DOCTOR: No, it's ridiculous. 
IAN: What do you mean? An animal, or a man or something? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: It's not very logical, is it? 
BARBARA: Or another intelligence. 
DOCTOR: Well, as I said, it's not very logical. 
BARBARA: No, it isn't. But does it have to be? I mean, things aren't always very logical, are they? It's just that one's been through so much, I've 
DOCTOR: I've been very patient with you, Miss Wright, and really, there's no more time for these absurd theories. 
IAN: Probably a mechanical fault. 
DOCTOR: Yes, or electric.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: It may even be the main unit. I don't know. I'm very worried about it all. Young man, I think you'll have to help me with that fault locator now that Susan's been put out of action. 
IAN: Yes, yes, of course I will. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. It won't take us long. 
IAN: I wouldn't go near the control column if I were you, Doctor. It might give you an electric shock. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, perhaps it would be wiser to check the fault locator first. I'm glad I thought of that. Yes, come along. Come along. 
IAN: Barbara. 
BARBARA: Keep an eye on Susan? 
IAN: Yes. Don't tell her about something being in the ship. 
(Susan overhears this conversation while sneaking out to get the scissors) 
BARBARA: No, of course not. 
IAN: You know, the less said, the better, eh? 
DOCTOR [OC]: Chesterton! 
IAN: Coming. Coming. 
(At the fault locator panel, the Doctor is leaning against the wall) 
IAN: Are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, these numbers keep blurring before my eyes, that's all. 
IAN: What can I do to help? 
DOCTOR: Well if you wouldn't mind standing in front of that indicator and what you will see will be a series of numbers.

[Room]

BARBARA: You're awake now. How are you feeling? Susan? You do remember who I am, don't you? 
SUSAN: Of course I do. You're Barbara. 
(Barbara puts a fresh moist towel on her forehead) 
SUSAN: Why? 
BARBARA: Hmm? 
SUSAN: There's nothing wrong with me. 
BARBARA: No, you're, you just need a rest, that's all. 
SUSAN: Where's Grandfather? 
BARBARA: He's checking the controls with Ian. 
SUSAN: Have they found out what's wrong with the ship? 
BARBARA: Ian thinks there was a power failure. 
SUSAN: Why did you ask me if I knew who you were? 
BARBARA: Susan, why don't you give me those scissors? Give them to me. Susan, what's all this about? 
SUSAN: You said there'd been a power failure. 
BARBARA: No, I didn't. I said that's what Ian thinks. 
SUSAN: I overheard the two of you. There's something here in the ship and he doesn't want you to tell me. 
BARBARA: I see. You just overheard a couple of words and you 
SUSAN: No! You lied to me. 
BARBARA: We wouldn't hurt you, Susan. Surely you know that? 
(Susan threatens Barbara, but when she stretches out her arm, Barbara manages to get the scissors away from her) 
SUSAN: I never noticed the shadows before. It's so silent in the ship. 
BARBARA: Yes. Or we're imagining things. We must be. I mean, how would anything get into the ship, anyway? 
SUSAN: The doors were open. 
BARBARA: Yes, but, but where would it hide? 
SUSAN: In one of us. 
BARBARA: No. No. We must stop talking about this. I mean, can you imagine what the others would say if we told them? They'd simply laugh at us. 
SUSAN: Supposing there isn't a fault. 
IAN: You must be clairvoyant. We've just checked everything and it's all perfect. Which is fantastic. How are you feeling? 
SUSAN: I'm all right. 
IAN: Good. 
SUSAN: What's my grandfather doing? 
IAN: That's what I came to tell you both. He's decided that the only fault can be outside the ship. He's gone to turn on the scanner. 
SUSAN: No! No, he mustn't! 
(She dashes into the console room)

[Tardis]

SUSAN: Don't touch! 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Are you all right, child? 
SUSAN: Yes. Grandfather, I tried to touch it, and it was like being hit, but without any pain. 
DOCTOR: Hit where? 
SUSAN: Well, the back of my neck hurt. 
DOCTOR: Yes, rather like mine. 
IAN: Funny, it didn't affect Barbara and me like that. 
DOCTOR: No, it didn't, did it? I must find out what's outside the ship, Susan. Stand close beside me, will you? 
(He reaches forward carefully and flicks a switch) 
SUSAN: Nothing happened to you. 
DOCTOR: No, indeed. 
BARBARA: Why does he keep looking at us like that? 
SUSAN: Hey, the scanner's working. 
(A pastoral scene and the sound of birds) 
BARBARA: That could be England. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes, I remember that. 
DOCTOR: That's very curious. That can't be what's outside the ship. This is a photograph. 
(The main doors open and a brilliant light bursts in, with a roaring sound) 
DOCTOR: Close the door, Susan! 
IAN: I'll do it. 
(The door closes) 
IAN: Well I didn't touch it. 
BARBARA: There's another picture. 
SUSAN: Oh, I recognise that. That's where we nearly lost the Tardis, four or five journey's back. 
DOCTOR: Yes, the planet Quinnis, of the fourth universe. 
SUSAN: That's not outside either. That's a photograph. 
IAN: Can you explain it? 
DOCTOR: Did I ever tell you that the ship has a memory bank, hmm? 
(He sits in the chair) 
SUSAN: Yes, it records our journeys. 
IAN: No, I don't think so. 
DOCTOR: Are you sure? I thought I did. 
SUSAN: Hey, look. 
(A cratered planetoid, a sea of stars, and a flash of light then blank) 
IAN: Well, what's all that about? 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't you know? I thought you might be able to explain it. 
IAN: Why me? 
DOCTOR: Trying to confuse me, eh? 
IAN: What are you getting at? 
BARBARA: Look, why don't we just try and open the doors and see for ourselves what's outside? 
DOCTOR: What is inside, madam, is most important at the moment. 
(they are now lined up across the console - Doctor and Susan versus Barbara and Ian) 
BARBARA: Inside? 
IAN: But you've just been telling us that the only people inside are ourselves. 
DOCTOR: Precisely. I know now who's responsible. You are. You sabotaged my ship. 
BARBARA: We didn't even touch your ship. 
IAN: (overlapping) What are you talking about? 
DOCTOR: You're the cause of this disaster. And you knocked both Susan and I unconscious. 
BARBARA: Don't be ridiculous. We were all knocked out. 
DOCTOR: A charade. You attacked us. 
IAN: Absolute nonsense. 
DOCTOR: And when we were lying helpless on the floor, you tampered with my controls. 
IAN: But you checked everything yourself and you couldn't find anything wrong with it. 
DOCTOR: No, sir. We checked everything. You and I. 
BARBARA: But why would we? For what reason? 
DOCTOR: Blackmail, that's why. You tried to force me to return you to England. 
BARBARA: Oh, don't be so stupid. 
DOCTOR: I know it. I'm sure of it. 
BARBARA: How dare you! Do you realise, you stupid old man, that you'd have died in the Cave of Skulls if Ian hadn't made fire for you? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I 
BARBARA: And what about what we went through against the Daleks? Not just for us, but for you and Susan too. And all because you tricked us into going down to the city. 
DOCTOR: But I, I 
BARBARA: Accuse us? You ought to go down on your hands and knees and thank us. But gratitude's the last thing you'll ever have, or any sort of common sense either. 
(Barbara walks away, then clutches her head and screams. There is a curious clockwork device on a plinth. Barbara rips off her own watch and throws it across the room, then collapses into the chair, sobbing. Ian and Susan look at their own watches)
IAN: You can't blame us for this, Doctor. Where is he? 
(The Doctor re-enters with four cups on a tray) 
DOCTOR: I've decided we need more time to think. We're all somewhat overwrought. Mister Chesterton. (offers the cups around) Miss Wright. Susan. 
IAN: I wish I could understand you, Doctor. One moment you're abusing us, and the next, you're playing the perfect butler. 
DOCTOR: A little nightcap to help us relax and sleep. 
IAN: If it is night. We have no way of telling now. 
BARBARA: I'm going to bed. 
(Barbara leaves) 
SUSAN: Make it up with her, Grandfather. Please do. 
(Susan leaves) 
IAN: Doctor, some very strange things are happening. I feel we're in a very dangerous position. This is no time for personal quarrels. 
DOCTOR: Meaning? 
IAN: I think you should go and apologise to Barbara at once. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid we have no time for codes and manners. And I certainly don't underestimate the dangers, if they exist. But I must have time to think. I must think. Rash action is worse than no action at all, hmm? 
IAN: I don't see anything rash in apologising to Barbara.

[Room]

IAN: Frankly, Doctor, I find it hard to keep pace with you. 
DOCTOR: You mean, to keep one jump ahead. That you will never be. You need my knowledge and ability to apply it, and then you need my experience to gain the fullest results. 
IAN: Results? For good or for evil? 
DOCTOR: One man's law is another man's crime. Sleep on it, Chesterton. Sleep on it. 
(Barbara has pulled down a second curved bed. Susan goes over to her) 
SUSAN: I'm sorry for what Grandfather said to you. 
BARBARA: It wasn't your fault. 
SUSAN: I know, but, try and understand him. Forgive him. 
BARBARA: Try and get some sleep. 
(later, the Doctor checks they are all asleep, then goes into the console room, chuckling to himself. He is looking over the controls when someone grabs him around the throat!)

Episode Two - The Brink of Disaster

[Tardis]

(The attacker is a staring-eyed Ian. The Doctor throws him off easily and he falls to the floor with a cry. Barbara comes out of the room too.) 
DOCTOR: So, it was you? 
BARBARA: Ian! 
DOCTOR: It's no use pretending. 
BARBARA: Well, help him. 
DOCTOR: Help him? You saw him. You saw what he tried to do. 
BARBARA: But now he's fainted just like Susan did. 
DOCTOR: Susan didn't faint. It was you that told me she fainted and I very nearly believed you. 
BARBARA: Oh, what does it matter? 
DOCTOR: Matter? Matter, young lady? He very nearly tried to strangle me. 
BARBARA: But he has fainted. Look at him. 
DOCTOR: Oh, he's play-acting. 
BARBARA: No, he isn't. Oh, Doctor, don't you see? Something terrible's happening to all of us. 
DOCTOR: Not to me. Nothing's happened to me. This is a plot between the two of you to get control of my ship. 
BARBARA: Oh, that isn't true. 
DOCTOR: Can't you see I've found you out? Why won't you admit it, hmm? 
SUSAN: Yes. Why don't you? 
BARBARA: Susan! 
SUSAN: You've been behaving very strangely. Both of you. 
BARBARA: But. 
SUSAN: I think you're right, Grandfather. 
BARBARA: But you're wrong. I swear we haven't done anything. 
DOCTOR: I told you i'd treat you as enemies. 
SUSAN: No! 
DOCTOR: There's no other way. 
BARBARA: Well what are you going to do? 
DOCTOR: That is my business. 
BARBARA: Ian, wake up. For heaven's sake, wake up, Ian. Ian, Ian, help me. 
IAN: I, I, I 
DOCTOR: There's no alternative. Your little trick endangered our lives. 
SUSAN: How did he get like this? 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's all a charade. 
BARBARA: He went near the control panel. 
SUSAN: It did happen to me, Grandfather. 
BARBARA: Yes, you remember. You lost your memory. And there was this terrible pain at the back of your neck. 
SUSAN: Yes. Yes, that's true. 
BARBARA: What do you think we've done? Hypnotised you? Drugged you? Susan, we wouldn't do anything like that. Believe me. 
DOCTOR: I see. Divide and conquer, eh? She's trying to poison your mind against me. 
IAN: (suddenly sitting up) Don't touch it, Doctor! (and falling back again) 
SUSAN: I do believe you. Grandfather, they couldn't have done all the things that happened. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I admit they were very smart. 
SUSAN: No, it's not a question of being smart. 
DOCTOR: Don't you see I wouldn't allow them to hurt you, child? They're very resourceful and cunning, and it only leaves me one recourse. They must be put off the ship. 
SUSAN: No! You can't do that! 
DOCTOR: I can and I must. 
BARBARA: But you can't open the doors. 
DOCTOR: Don't underestimate my powers, young lady. 
SUSAN: Look, Grandfather. You've no means of telling what's out there. There may be no air, it may be freezing, it may be too hot to exist. 
DOCTOR: Yes, or it might be the Earth in the twentieth century. Hadn't it occurred to you? My ship is very valuable, remember? 
BARBARA: Why are you so suspicious of us? 
DOCTOR: Put yourself in my place, young lady, and you'd do precisely the same thing, wouldn't you? Hmm? 
IAN: What are you two saying to each other? 
DOCTOR: You're getting off the ship, Chesterton. 
IAN: Now? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Now. Get up. 
IAN: You'll have to help me, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: You'll have to help me, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: I'll be all right when I get outside. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather. He doesn't know what's happening. I won't let you do this. 
DOCTOR: If, of course, they'd like to confess to me what they have done to my ship, I may even change my mind. 
(A klaxon alarm sounds) 
BARBARA: What, what was that? 
SUSAN: The danger signal. 
DOCTOR: The fault locator! The whole of it! 
IAN: Oh, don't touch it, Doctor. 
BARBARA: It's all right. 
IAN: No. No, you'll get knocked out. 
BARBARA: It's all right, Ian. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, tell me. 
BARBARA: It's all right. 
DOCTOR: The whole area of the fault locator has just given us a warning. 
SUSAN: But everything can't be. Everything can't be wrong! 
DOCTOR: That's what it means, child. 
(Ian grabs the back of Barbara's neck) 
BARBARA: No! Ian! Ian, it's all right. It's, it's all right. It's all right. 
IAN: I pulled you away. The controls are alive. (passes out) 
DOCTOR: No, you mustn't be frightened of me. Not now, please. I can't explain, but I've just realised the danger we're in. 
SUSAN: It went off again, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Hurry. Look. We must pull him round. You see that panel up there? You've heard me refer to it? The fault locator? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: If one small piece of apparatus fails, a little bulb illuminates and tells me precisely where the fault is. Can you imagine what would happen if the whole of it lights up? Hmm? It means that the ship is on the point of disintegration. You're not to blame. All four of us are to blame! 
IAN: Oh, you're all right. That drink you gave us. 
DOCTOR: Oh, a mere harmless sleeping drug. 
IAN: I thought so. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you rather suspected I was up to some mischief. 
IAN: Yes. And I told you not to go near the control column. I told you you'll electrocute yourself. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid I must have misjudged you both. 
SUSAN: Fifteen seconds. It's happening every fifteen seconds. 
BARBARA: But all the clock are 
SUSAN: I counted. 
DOCTOR: Well please go on counting. Now both of you listen. Can you concentrate? 
IAN: Yes, I think I'm all right. 
DOCTOR: We're on the brink of destruction, so all four of us must work closely together. We must find out where we are and what is happening to my ship. 
IAN: Just a moment. Why did you say that, the brink of destruction? 
DOCTOR: There's a strong force at work somewhere, which is threatening my ship. It's so strong that every piece of equipment can be out of action at the same time. 
IAN: What? Total disintegration? 
DOCTOR: Precisely. We haven't crash-landed, otherwise I would have discovered that immediately. And I don't believe there's an evil intelligence in the ship. Just at the same token, I don't really believe that you, either of you, have been the cause of this trouble. 
IAN: Well, what is, then? 
DOCTOR: I don't know, but we must find out. 
IAN: Yes, but how long have we got? 
SUSAN: It's definitely every quarter of a minute. 
IAN: Well what does that prove? 
BARBARA: That we have a measure of time as long as it lasts. Yes, of course. That explains the clock face. We had time taken away from us, and now it's being given back to us because it's running out. 
(The ship shakes) 
SUSAN: The column. 
(goes up and down once, with no sound) 
DOCTOR: But, it's impossible. 
IAN: Doctor, I thought it only moved when the power was on. 
DOCTOR: Yes. The heart of the machine is under the column. 
IAN: Well what made it move? 
DOCTOR: The source of power. You see, when the column rises, it proves the extent of the power thrust. 
BARBARA: Then what would have happened if the column had come out completely? 
SUSAN: Well, the power would be free to escape. 
DOCTOR: Can it be possible then, that this is the end? 
IAN: The end? What are you talking about? 
DOCTOR: We have ten minutes to survive. 
BARBARA: Ten minutes? As little as that? 
DOCTOR: Maybe less. 
IAN: Be careful, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's quite safe here. This is where I stood when I tried the scanner switch. 
BARBARA: Yes. Yes. Why is that part safe? 
SUSAN: We'll never stop it in time! 
BARBARA: Don't, Susan. Please don't. 
DOCTOR: I don't know even where to begin, Chesterton. If only I had a clue. 
BARBARA: I think. I think, perhaps, we've been given nothing else but clues. 
IAN: Have we? Like the food machine, you mean. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: It registered empty, but it wasn't. 
BARBARA: But the clock is the most important. It made us aware of time. 
SUSAN: By taking time away from us. 
BARBARA: Yes. And it replaced time by the light on the fault locator. 
IAN: Yes, it did. 
DOCTOR: It? It? What do you mean? My machine can't think. 
BARBARA: You say it has a built-in defence mechanism? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it has. 
BARBARA: Well that's where we've been wrong. Originally, the machine wasn't at fault, we were. And it's been trying to tell us so ever since. 
IAN: A machine that can think for itself? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: Is that feasible, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, think not as you or I do, but it must be able to think as a machine. You see, it has a bank of computers. 
BARBARA: You say the power is under this column? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: And the column holds it down. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: Well, then, what would make it want to escape? 
DOCTOR: I've been racking my brains. I don't know. 
IAN: Something outside? 
DOCTOR: Yes, possible. 
IAN: A magnetic force? 
DOCTOR: Well, it would have to be a gigantic one. A one as strong as a solar system. 
(Another bang and shake) 
BARBARA: You see? The machine's been warning us all along. All those blackouts we had. 
SUSAN: Yes. But only if anybody went near the control column. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: But it could be the power escaping. 
DOCTOR: No, no, it couldn't. If you felt the power, dear boy, you wouldn't live to speak of it. You'd be blown to atoms in a split second. 
SUSAN: Besides, it's the part of it that's safe. 
BARBARA: Yes. The scanner. I wonder. 
DOCTOR: We'll try it, but we're clutching at straws. Come. 
(Another bang and shake) 
DOCTOR: Now, Susan, and you, young lady, should those doors open again, I want you to be standing by them, and tell me whatever it is you see outside, understand? 
(Susan and Barbara go to the door, the Doctor beckons Ian to him) 
DOCTOR: I lied, deliberately, so that they won't know. 
IAN: Won't know what? 
DOCTOR: We have five minutes only. When the end does come, they won't know anything about it. 
IAN: There's no hope, then. 
DOCTOR: I can't see any. Will you face it with me? 
SUSAN: What are you two talking about? 
IAN: Oh, just a theory of mine that didn't work. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we must solve this problem, you know. We must. 
(The countryside picture is back on the scanner. The doors open onto a dazzling light) 
SUSAN: There's nothing there. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing but space. 
BARBARA: It's all right, Susan. 
(The scanner shows a jungle) 
IAN: Barbara could be right, Doctor. 
BARBARA: I am right. I know I am. Whenever there's a good picture, the doors open because it's safe for us to go outside. And then it shows us a terrible picture and the doors close again. 
DOCTOR: Yes, then we have the sequence. A planet, a planet in the solar system, getting further away. Blinding flash. Destruction. Yes, of course. It's our journey. 
BARBARA: And the ship refused to destroy itself. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes! 
BARBARA: The defence mechanism stopped the ship, and it's been trying to tell us so ever since! 
DOCTOR: Of course. Of course! 
(Another big shake, and the lights dim) 
DOCTOR: I know. I know. I said it would take the force of a total solar system to attract the power away from my ship. We're at the very beginning, the new start of a solar system. Outside, the atoms are rushing towards each other. Fusing, coagulating, until minute little collections of matter are created. And so the process goes on, and on until dust is formed. Dust then becomes solid entity. A new birth, of a sun and its planets. 
IAN: But, Doctor, where are we? When we left the planet Skaro, where did you ask the machine to take us to? Think, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: I, er, had hoped to reach your planet Earth. Skaro was in the future and I used the fast return switch. 
IAN: The fast return switch? You've sent us back too far. Doctor, show me. Show me that switch. Where is it? 
DOCTOR: Well, I can't very well see it without a light, can I? 
SUSAN: It's near the scanner switch. 
BARBARA: Really? But that's the part of the control that's safe. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Strange. 
IAN: Doctor, we haven't got very much time left. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. Here it is. (pulls a small torch from his pocket) Here, you see? Now, look, there's the switch. You see? 
IAN: Yes, well how does it work? 
DOCTOR: Well, you merely press it down, and. It's stuck. It hasn't released itself! 
IAN: What? You mean it's been on all this time? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it must have been. 
IAN: Well, come on, Doctor. Let's get it unstuck. 
DOCTOR: Hold that. Yes, just a minute now. Yes, there you are, you see? 
IAN: What's wrong? 
DOCTOR: The spring's not connecting. It's come off the base. 
IAN: Hurry, Doctor, hurry. 
DOCTOR: There we are. Take it out. Now, luckily we can turn it over and now it should work. There. Ah, that's all right. 
(The lights come back and the Tardis returns to normal) 
SUSAN: We're safe now. 
BARBARA: Are you sure? 
DOCTOR: Yes, we can all relax. We're quite safe now. But it was a narrow squeak. 
SUSAN: Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my child? 
SUSAN: What happened? 
DOCTOR: What happened? It was the switch. It was still in place. You see, there's a little spring inside it and it was stuck. It hadn't released itself. 
SUSAN: But why didn't the fault locator tell us? 
DOCTOR: Well, the switch hadn't broken down, therefore the fault locator couldn't give us any recognition. You see, let me give you a demonstration. (using his torch) Now, look, when I put my thumb on there, the light comes on. And it only stays on so long as my thumb is pressing that switch. As soon as I take if off, a little spring inside releases the switch here and out goes the light. 
SUSAN: Oh, I see. So if the spring were broken, it would be as if your finger were pressing it down all the time. 
DOCTOR: Precisely. As simple as that. You know, my dear child, I think your old grandfather is going a tiny little bit around the bend. Well, I think you were very brave and I was proud of you. 
SUSAN: Grandfather? What about them? You said some terrible things to them. When I thought he was going to attack you, even I was against him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I, I, er, well 
IAN: Don't bother to say anything, Doctor. You know there are times when I can read every thought on your face. 
DOCTOR: Really? And I always thought that you were a young man without any recrimination in you. Well, as for you, young lady, well, you were absolutely right. It was your instinct and intuition against my logic, and you succeeded. I mean, the blackouts, and the still pictures and the clock. Well, you read a story into all these things and were determined to hold on to it. We all owe you our lives. 
BARBARA: I, I 
(Barbara leaves) 
DOCTOR: You know, I really believe I have underestimated that young lady in the past, Chartow. Well now, we can all start again, eh? Yes, we can. Yes. But which? Hmm? What are you laughing at, dear boy? Oh, really, you are 
(The Doctor mumbles to himself and starts the Tardis off on another journey)

[Room]

(Much later. Barbara is in day clothes and still sulking) 
DOCTOR: I'd like to talk to you, if I may. We've landed on a planet and the air is good, but it's rather cold outside. 
BARBARA: Susan told me. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you haven't forgiven me, have you. 
BARBARA: You said terrible things to us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose it's the injustice that's upsetting you, and when I made a threat to put you off the ship it must have affected you very deeply. 
BARBARA: What do you care what I think or feel? 
DOCTOR: As we learn about each other, so we learn about ourselves. 
BARBARA: Perhaps. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. Because I accused you unjustly, you were determined to prove me wrong. So, you put your mind to the problem and, luckily, you solved it. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, we're going out now. 
DOCTOR: Oh, please, yes. Do open the doors, will you? 
SUSAN: Are you coming? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
SUSAN: Good. 
DOCTOR: Oh, by the way, Susan has left you some wearing apparel for outside. You know, we have a very extensive wardrobe here. 
BARBARA: Yes, she gave me these. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think they're rather charming. We must look after you, you know. You're very valuable. Yes. 
(He helps her on with the coat, and offers his arm) 
DOCTOR: Shall we go?

[Tardis]

(Ian has donned an Ulster coat, and Susan is in boots and jacket) 
DOCTOR: Oh, good taste. 
IAN: Hello. 
BARBARA: Very chic. 
SUSAN: Look, snow! 
(And throws some at them. Barbara chases after her) 
DOCTOR: Well, I think that's absolutely splendid, Chesterton. Yes, it suits you. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Always a trifle too big for me. You know, I acquired that ulster from Gilbert and Sullivan. 
IAN: Oh, really? I thought it was made for two. Well, shall we join the ladies, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, why not. 
SUSAN [on scanner]: Grandfather, look.

[Snowfield]

SUSAN: Look at this huge footprint. It must have been made by a giant.

[Snowfield]

(There's a large footprint in the snow)
SUSAN: Must've been made by a giant. What do you make of this?
IAN: Well, it could be a perfectly ordinary footprint, Susan, and the sun's melted the edges and made it look a bit bigger.
SUSAN: Oh.
(The Doctor comes out of the Tardis)
IAN: You all right, Doctor?
DOCTOR: Yes. Oh, a little bit out of breath. Oh, that's quite understandable. After all, we're several thousand feet above sea level.
SUSAN: Do you know where we are then, Grandfather?
DOCTOR: Well, I directed the ship towards Earth and it looks as though I've been successful.
SUSAN: But what about that? (the footprint) 
DOCTOR: That? Oh, I can't see anything without my glasses. Anyway, I don't like this place. You'll have to excuse me. I've got a lot of work to do first. 
(The Doctor goes back into the Tardis.)
IAN: Barbara, I wonder, do you think it could be the Earth? If it were, where do you think we could be? In the Alps?
BARBARA: Or it could be the Andes. 
SUSAN: Himalayas, the roof of the world.
IAN: The roof of the world. I wonder. If only. Well, the Doctor isn't very reliable, you know. Mustn't count on anything.
(The Doctor comes out of the Tardis again.)
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear. We're always in trouble, Isn't this extraordinary? It follows us everywhere.
IAN: What's the matter?
DOCTOR: All the lights in the ship have gone out. The whole circuit has burned itself to a cinder, and added to that it affected the water. We haven't got any.
IAN: Well, the water's no bother, Doctor. I mean, we've got snow, plenty of it. But how about the heating?
DOCTOR: Oh, the heating as well. Everything's gone to pot.
BARBARA: But that's serious. We could freeze to death.
DOCTOR: Serious. Are you telling? There's no need for you to tell me that, really.
IAN: I think I'd better try and find some fuel.
DOCTOR: Fuel? Now where on earth do you expect to find fuel here, hmm?
IAN: Well, I must try, mustn't I?
DOCTOR: Oh well, I wish you luck.
BARBARA: I'll come with you, Ian.
IAN: Thank you.
SUSAN: Yes, me too.
IAN: No, Susan, you stay here.
DOCTOR: You stay with me, child. You might be able to help me.
SUSAN: Okay.
IAN: Oh, come on, Barbara, we haven't much time.
DOCTOR: Now, Susan, go into the ship and fetch me the two L oh, will you? You know what it is. Even if I do find the fault, I don't suppose I shall be able to repair it before it gets dark, and then we shall all freeze to death.

[Mountainside]

BARBARA: Ian, wait a minute. I must rest.
IAN: Come on, Barbara. We haven't found anything yet. We must find something.
BARBARA: All right then, you go on. I'll catch up with you. 
IAN: All right.
BARBARA: Oh, it's hopeless. 
(Ian goes on. Barbara closes her eyes, reopens them and sees something furry near her.)
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: What is it? What's the matter?
BARBARA: I, there was there was an animal or something! Just standing there staring at me. You don't believe me, do you? Well, look at these footprints.
IAN: I'd better take you back to the ship.

[Snowfield]

(The Doctor and Susan are looking at a broken component.)
SUSAN: Can you mend it, Grandfather, or have you got to make a new one?
DOCTOR: I'm afraid it's going to need a new one, dear. It's going to take me days. Oh well, I don't know, really, I always seem to 
(Ian and Barbara enter.)
DOCTOR: Well, Chesterton?
IAN: Just as you predicted, Doctor, nothing but snow and ice.
DOCTOR: Yes.
BARBARA: Have you found the fault?
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, but it's going to take such a long time. Time we don't have. Now the only chance is to try and get down to a lower altitude and, you know, before it gets cold and we 
BARBARA: Doctor, there are strange things on the mountain. I saw one of them.
DOCTOR: What's she talking about now?
IAN: Well, I only saw a print.
DOCTOR: Print? What sort of print? Paws, hooves, what?
IAN: To tell you the truth, I thought it was made by a fur boot.
BARBARA: No, Ian, I'm sure it wasn't human.
DOCTOR: And if it were, that means there's shelter nearby.
(Susan sees the figure again.)
SUSAN: Look!
BARBARA: Look, there it is.
IAN: Quick, after it. It's our only chance of shelter.
SUSAN: Come on, Grandfather.
DOCTOR: All right. Yes, yes, yes, yes.

[Mountainside]

IAN: Which way did it go?
(Suddenly, they are surrounded by Mongols.)
SUSAN: Grandfather!
IAN: Keep still. We're travellers, lost on the mountains. Will you give us shelter?
TEGANA: Hear me, Mongols. In these parts live evil spirits, who take our likeness to deceive us and then lead us to our deaths. Let us therefore destroy these evil spirits before they destroy us.
IAN: We're not evil spirits. We are people like yourselves.
TEGANA: Destroy them.
POLO: Stop! Put up your swords.
TEGANA: Would you have us killed? These are evil spirits. 
POLO: I command you in the name of Kublai Khan. 
(The Mongols put their weapons away.)
POLO: The old man has the mountain sickness?
IAN: Yes, he has.
POLO: My caravan is further down the pass. Come.
IAN: Come on, Doctor.
SUSAN: Who is he, Barbara?
BARBARA: I was asking myself the same question.

[Tent]

POLO: We have guests, Ping-Cho. They are cold and hungry.
PING-CHO: (a young girl) Yes, Messer Marco.
IAN: Sit down, Doctor.
(Ping-Cho gives the Doctor a bowl of soup.)
DOCTOR: Thank you, my dear.
SUSAN: He's not like her, or any of the others.
BARBARA: No, he's a European, Susan, and he mentioned Kublai Khan. 
SUSAN: Kublai Khan?
BARBARA: He was a great Mongol leader, who conquered all of Asia. He had a European in his service. He was a Venetian and his name 
POLO: I'm afraid the liquid is not too warm, but the cold here is so intense, it even robs a flame of its heat.
DOCTOR: Oh, it's excellent nourishment, sir.
IAN: The cold can't affect the heat of the flame, sir. The liquid boils at a lower temperature, because there's so little air up here.
POLO: You mean the air is responsible?
IAN: Well, the lack of it. Just as the lack of it is responsible for the Doctor's mountain sickness.
BARBARA: Is your name Marco Polo?
POLO: It is, my lady, and may I ask who you are?
DOCTOR: Oh we're travellers yes. That's my grandchild, Susan, and that's Miss Wright, and that's Charlton.
IAN: Chesterton. Ian Chesterton. 
POLO: My companions are the Lady Ping-Cho and the Warlord Tegana. We travel to Shang Tu.
BARBARA: Shang Tu? That's in China, isn't it?
POLO: China? I do not know this place. Shang Tu is in Cathay.
BARBARA: Oh, silly of me. Yes, of course, Cathay.
POLO: Well, you must all be very tired. Ping-Cho, you will share your quarters with?
SUSAN: Susan.
POLO: Susan. I will sleep here with the others, and Lady?
BARBARA: Miss Wright.
POLO: Miss Wright, you will have mine.
BARBARA: Thank you.
DOCTOR: Thank you. You saved our lives.
POLO: I'm rather curious to know why you were wandering around the mountainside at night, but questions can wait until morning.
DOCTOR: Oh, there were two, young man, that I would like to ask.
POLO: Well, ask them.
DOCTOR: What year is this and where are we, hmm?
POLO: You do not know?
DOCTOR: That is why I'm asking you.
POLO: How long have you been travelling? It is twelve hundred and eighty nine and this is the Plain of Pamir, known to those who travel to Cathay as The Roof of the World.
IAN: The Roof of the World?
DOCTOR: Twelve hundred and eighty nine. Ah..

[The girl's compartment]

(The girls can't sleep)
PING-CHO: Are you asleep, Susan?
SUSAN: No.
PING-CHO: Where are you from?
SUSAN: That's a very difficult question to answer, Ping-Cho.
PING-CHO: You do not know where your home is?
SUSAN: Well, I've had many homes in many places. What about you?
PING-CHO: I come from Samarkand. My father is government official there.
SUSAN: But I thought Mister Polo said that 
PING-CHO: Messer Marco! That's what we call him in Cathay. 
SUSAN: Well, I thought Messer Marco said that you were going to Shang Tu. Are you on holiday?
PING-CHO: No, Kublai Khan's summer palace is in Shang Tu. I am going there to be married.
SUSAN: What? But how old are you?
PING-CHO: I am in my sixteenth year.
SUSAN: Well, so am I.
PING-CHO: Do you marry at our age in your land? Here it is the custom.
SUSAN: Is your fianc handsome?
PING-CHO: My what?
SUSAN: Your, the man you're going to marry.
PING-CHO: I have never seen him.
SUSAN: What?
PING-CHO: The marriage has been arranged by my family. I know only two things about him.
SUSAN: What are they?
PING-CHO: He is very important man. 
SUSAN: That's a good start.
PING-CHO: And he's seventy-five years old.

[Tent]

TEGANA: You should have let me kill them.
POLO: Why? Because their clothes are different from ours? Because their words are unfamiliar to our ears? No, Tegana, they are travellers.
TEGANA: They are evil spirits. Sorcerers. Magicians. Tomorrow, if we live until then, you may see that I speak the truth.
POLO: I think the sun's rays will dispel the shadows from your mind, Tegana.
TEGANA: Is that what you believe. Listen, the carriage they travel in has no wheels. It just stands there like a warlord's tomb on one end. And another thing. It is not large enough to carry four people.
POLO: It must be.
TEGANA: I say it is not, and yet I saw all four walk from it. Upon my sword, I swear it to you.

[Outside the Tardis]

(Day)
POLO: So, this is your caravan?
IAN: Yes, the Doctor calls it the Tardis.
POLO: Where are the wheels?
IAN: It doesn't have any.
POLO: Then how does it move?
IAN: Through the air.
TEGANA: Did I not say they that they were evil spirits?
POLO: Are you of the Buddhist faith?
IAN: No, why?
POLO: Well, at the Khan's court in Peking, I have seen Buddhist monks make cups of wine fly through the air unaided and offer themselves to the Great Khan's lips. I do not understand it, but I have seen it. There is room for all of you inside here, Miss Wright?
BARBARA: Yes.
POLO: And one enters here?
BARBARA: It's locked.
POLO: Where is the key?
BARBARA: The Doctor has it, and you wouldn't let him come up here.
POLO: Oh yes, he has the mountain sickness. Have you the power to make it fly?
IAN: No, only the Doctor has that power.
POLO: Why is it here?
SUSAN: It's damaged.
POLO: What?
IAN: Part of it is broken.
POLO: But it could be moved by hand?
IAN: Oh yes, if you had sufficient men.
POLO: Well, we'll make a sledge and take it down the pass. Then we shall see.

[Tent]

(Ping-Cho is cooking, when the Doctor enters.) 
DOCTOR: Ping-Cho, this smells very, very good! What is it?
PING-CHO: Bean-sprout soup, my lord.
DOCTOR: Allow me. (he tastes it) Oh, it's delicious, delicious.
PING-CHO: My lord is kind.
DOCTOR: You know, it's rather surprising to find the daughter of a high government official working as a servant in Marco Polo's caravan.
PING-CHO: I wish to serve, my lord, although, among Messer Marco's retinue, there is a man who calls himself a cook.
DOCTOR: His name wouldn't be Tegana, would it?
PING-CHO: Oh no, my lord. The Warlord Tegana is a special emissary from the camp of the great Mongol Lord Khan Noghai, who has been at war with Kublai Khan.
DOCTOR: Yes, Mongol fighting Mongol. 
PING-CHO: The war is over, my lord. Noghai has sued for peace and Tegana travels to Kublai's court to discuss the armistice plans. 
DOCTOR: Yes, oh well, yes. Well, for an emissary of peace, he has rather blood-thirsty habits, doesn't he?
(Marco Polo, Ian, Barbara and Susan enter.)
POLO: I find your caravan most unusual, Doctor.
DOCTOR: Yes, Messer Marco, it is different.
POLO: And in need of repair?
DOCTOR: That is true.
SUSAN: Messer Marco has ordered a sledge to be made. He's going to bring the Tardis down here.
DOCTOR: Oh indeed? That's charming of you. Very charming of you. It won't take me very long to repair. A day or two. But I assure you that I shall not hold up your journey any longer than is necessary.
POLO: I'm afraid we can't stay here. One crosses the Plain of Pamir as quickly as possible. However, we will be spending a few days at Lop.
BARBARA: Lop? Where's that?
POLO: It's a town on the edge of the Gobi Desert, beyond Kashgar and Yarkand.
DOCTOR: I see, and you will be taking us along with you, including the Tardis?
POLO: Doctor, I once transported an entire army and its equipment from Cathay to India, all without loss.
DOCTOR: Oh good, good. Then I can work as we proceed.
POLO: No.
DOCTOR: Why not, hmm?
POLO: The Mongol bearers still half believe that you are evil spirits. They also believe that outside your caravan, you are harmless. However, should any of you attempt to enter, there would be trouble.
DOCTOR: I see. You saved our lives, Messer Marco and the least we can do is to respect your wishes. No one will enter the Tardis until we reach Lop.
POLO: Good.

POLO [OC]: Success. My plan has worked. The strangers and their unusual caravan accompany me to Lop. Our route takes us across the Roof of the World, down to the Kashgar Valley and southeast to Tarkand. Here we join the Old Silk Road, along which the commerce and culture of a thousand years has travelled to and from Cathay. I wonder what the strangers' reaction will be when I tell them what I propose to do?

[Lodgings]

POLO: My caravan is large, Yeng, so I shall need plenty of food and water before venturing out into the Gobi Desert. 
(Yeng leaves. Susan and Ping-Cho come down the stairs) 
POLO: Is the accommodation to your liking, Ping-Cho?
PING-CHO: Thank you, Messer Marco. It is most comfortable.
SUSAN: Oh, I think it's fab.
PING-CHO: Fab? What is that, Susan?
SUSAN: Well, it's, it means wonderful! It's a verb we often use on Earth.
DOCTOR: Oh, Messer Marco, these way-stations, do you have many of these in Cathay?
POLO: Yes, the Khan has them dotted at regular intervals throughout his domain. Those who work in his service and wear the Khan's gold seal have the right to demand anything they may require. Provisions, horses, shelter.
SUSAN: May I have a look, please?
POLO: Of course.
SUSAN: Thank you.
IAN: Doctor.
DOCTOR: Yes?
IAN: They've set the Tardis up in the courtyard.
DOCTOR: Oh, excellent, excellent. If you'll pardon me, I have a lot of work to do and 
(The Doctor tries to get into the Tardis, but is stopped by Mongol soldiers. He goes back inside) 
DOCTOR: What does this mean?
POLO: Please sit down, Doctor.
DOCTOR: I don't wish to sit down. I want you to call your guards off.
POLO: Please be seated.
DOCTOR: No.
POLO: I beg you to hear me out.
DOCTOR: But I have work to do.
BARBARA: I think, perhaps, we should listen to him. Come on.
DOCTOR: Oh, very well. 
POLO: My home is Venice. I left there with my father and my uncle to come to Cathay in twelve seventy one. The journey to Peking took us three and a half years. When I arrived at the Khan's court, I was twenty one. I was an alert young man, good at languages, and willing to learn. The Khan liked me.
DOCTOR: Oh, really?
POLO: On my twenty fifth birthday, I was given an appointment in the Khan's service.
BARBARA: Twelve seventy seven.
POLO: It was, as you say, twelve seventy seven. Since then, I have travelled to every corner of his domain and beyond it. Two years ago, my father, my uncle and I asked the Khan for permission to go home. He refused. I think we had all served him too well.
DOCTOR: Well, I really don't see what this has to do with my repairing the Tardis. 
POLO: Doctor, I have not seen my home for eighteen years. I want to go back.
DOCTOR: Well, ask the Khan again.
POLO: I intend to. This time, I shall offer him a gift so magnificent that he will not be able to refuse me.
IAN: You mean to give the Doctor's caravan to him?
POLO: Yes.
DOCTOR: You're mad.
POLO: You can make another.
DOCTOR: What? In Peking, or Shang Tu?
POLO: You do me an injustice, Doctor. I will not leave you stranded in Cathay, just as I did not let you die on the mountain. No, you will come with me to Venice and make another one there.
DOCTOR: Oh, you think so, really? Oh no. Oh no.
IAN: Marco, it's impossible.
POLO: Surely, for a man who possesses a flying caravan, all things are possible?
IAN: No. We need special metals, materials, things that don't exist in Venice. I'm afraid you don't understand all the problems involved.
DOCTOR: And neither do you, young man. 
POLO: Well, travel home by ship. We trade with every port in the world. It may take you longer, but you'll get there eventually. 
DOCTOR: Eventually. He doesn't know what he's talking about. The man's a lunatic. Ho. 
POLO: No, Doctor, desperate. There are many men who are jealous of the Polo influence at court, and the Khan suffers from an affliction for which there is no cure.
BARBARA: What's that?
POLO: Old age. If he dies, I may never see Venice again.
DOCTOR: Well, that is your problem, not mine. 
POLO: I have just made it yours, Doctor. 
BARBARA: But you do see Venice again, Marco, I know you do. 
IAN: What makes you so sure that the Doctor's caravan is a suitable present? The Doctor is the only one who can fly it. 
POLO: I told you about the Buddhist monks. They will discover its secret. A caravan that flies. Do you imagine what this will mean to the Khan? It will make him the most powerful ruler the world has ever known. Stronger than Hannibal. Mightier than Alexander the Great. 
IAN: Marco, you don't understand. 
POLO: I refuse to listen you to any more. My mind is made up. Your caravan goes with me to Kublai Khan. 
BARBARA: Doctor, come on. Come and sit down.
DOCTOR: Oh well, what a mess.
SUSAN: Grandfather. Grandfather.
DOCTOR: Yes. Go by sea, he says. 
SUSAN: Why are you laughing? He means it. 
BARBARA: Doctor, he's serious. 
DOCTOR: I know he is. Yes. 
SUSAN: What are you going to do?
DOCTOR: (in total hysterics) I haven't the faintest idea.

[Alleyway]

MAN: Be careful, my lord. One drop will poison an army. 
TEGANA: I will use it well, on all but the first of Marco Polo's water gourds, for tomorrow, the caravan sets out to cross the Gobi Desert. Now, you will follow us, and on the third night I will walk back to you. Then we will ride back here to Lop, wait for two days, and then return to the caravan to collect the thing of magic, and bring the mighty Kublai Khan to his knees!

Episode Two - The Singing Sands

POLO [OC]: I have taken charge of the travellers' unusual caravan, and set out into the Gobi Desert. The journey across this vast ocean of sand is slow and hazardous. To make matters worse, the old Doctor continually shows his disapproval of my action by being both difficult and bad-tempered. For three days now, during which time we have covered no more than thirty miles, I have had to endure his insults.

[Tent]

(night) 
IAN: How much water does a caravan like this use crossing the Gobi Desert, Marco? 
POLO: We will use one barrel every five days, Ian. I have allowed for eight gourds to carry us across to the other side. 
TEGANA: The bones of many men who thought they had enough lie bleached in the desert sand. 
POLO: I think we should exercise some restraint, Tegana. I'm sorry the Doctor wouldn't eat with us this evening. 
SUSAN: Yes, so am I, Messer Marco. I've given him food. 
(Susan goes behind a partition) 
POLO: A game of chess, Ian? 
IAN: Oh, well, I'm not very good, but I'll give you a game. 
POLO: I gladly accept your challenge. 
BARBARA: What magnificent pieces. 
POLO: Yes, I purchased them in Hamutz, on my first journey to Cathay. Now, they go with me everywhere. 
TEGANA: Do you 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Marco. 
(Susan runs out of the tent) 
TEGANA: Do you play chess, lady? 
BARBARA: Not very well, Tegana. Excuse me. 
(Barbara leaves) 
TEGANA: I find it a fascinating game of strategy of war. Two equally balanced armies deployed upon a field of battle, and each commander determined to be the one who cries shah mat. 
IAN: Shah mat? Check mate? 
TEGANA: It means the king is dead.

[Outside the tent]

BARBARA: We'll get the Tardis back, Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes, at Kublai Khan's court when it's too late. We should be up there. Another time, another galaxy. 
BARBARA: We'll think of something. 
SUSAN: How? Ian's playing chess with Marco. Grandfather's being rude and sulking by himself. 
BARBARA: Oh, I don't think he's sulking, is he? 
SUSAN: Well, he won't eat. He won't even talk to me. 
BARBARA: Well, you know him better than I do, but I'd have said he was just feeling defenceless. He has a wonderful machine, capable of all sorts of miracles, and it's taken away from him by a man he calls a primitive. Look, Tardis is the only home we have at the moment. When we're in it we feel safe and secure. When we're out of it. 
SUSAN: Will he talk to me? Confide in me? 
BARBARA: Oh, he's like a rubber ball. He'll come bouncing out of there soon full of ideas. 
SUSAN: One day we'll know all the mysteries of the skies, and we'll stop our wandering. 
BARBARA: Then you and I will say goodbye. 
SUSAN: Oh, not yet. Not for a long time. 
BARBARA: Well, I think we should say goodnight anyway. 
SUSAN: Are you coming? 
BARBARA: No, not for the moment. 
SUSAN: Goodnight.

[Tent]

(Susan enters) 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho? 
POLO: Shh. She's gone to bed. 
SUSAN: Oh, well, I'll go too then. Goodnight. 
POLO: Goodnight, Susan. Sleep well. Now, what was I about to do? Ah yes. 
IAN: Ouch.

[The girl's compartment]

SUSAN: Not asleep yet? 
PING-CHO: No, I was thinking. 
SUSAN: What about? 
PING-CHO: How peaceful it is in the desert. 
SUSAN: Oh, it's a lovely night. 
PING-CHO: The moon will rise later. That is the time to see the desert. It is like a great silver sea. 
SUSAN: The metal seas of Venus. 
PING-CHO: Where? 
SUSAN: Oh, a long way from here. I've never seen a moonlit night. How long before the moon rises? 
PING-CHO: Two or three hours. I'll call you then.

[Tent]

BARBARA: Night in the desert is very beautiful. 
POLO: Don't be deceived by it, Miss Wright, the desert is always dangerous. 
IAN: Like my Queen. Check. 
TEGANA: Marco, can you save your King? 
POLO: I think so, Tegana. Check.

[Outside the girls' compartment]

(The moon has risen, and the Milky Way is in full view too) 
SUSAN: Oh crazy. Hey, Ping-Cho. 
PING-CHO: Shh. The guard'll hear you. Crazy? 
SUSAN: We like dig it. You know, like it. 
PING-CHO: This language of yours is very strange. 
(Tegana comes out of the main tent and talks to a guard) 
SUSAN: Tegana. Let's follow him. 
PING-CHO: He'll be angry. 
SUSAN: You're not afraid? 
PING-CHO: No. I am not. Come.

[Tent]

(The two men are woken by the sound of neighing) 
IAN: What is it, Marco? 
POLO: The horses are very restless.

[Outside the tent]

POLO: There's a sandstorm coming, Ian. 
IAN: How do you know? 
POLO: Notice how still it is. As if everything were waiting. They sense it too. 
IAN: Will it be a bad one? 
POLO: Bad enough. I must attend to the horses.

[Desert]

(Susan and Ping-Cho are trying to follow Tegana) 
SUSAN: He walks so quickly. Can you still see him? 
PING-CHO: Yes. There he is, over there. 
SUSAN: Oh, let's give up. 
PING-CHO: Who is afraid now? 
SUSAN: No, I'm not afraid. It's just that it's so hot I can hardly breathe. 
PING-CHO: Yet it was most pleasant when we left the caravan. 
SUSAN: Oh, come on, let's go back. 
PING-CHO: All right. Susan? Listen. 
SUSAN: What's that? 
PING-CHO: Where? 
SUSAN: That cloud on the horizon. 
PING-CHO: Susan, it's a sandstorm! 
SUSAN: What! It's coming this way! Ping-Cho, we must get back before it reaches us! 
PING-CHO: No, the caravan's too far away! 
SUSAN: No, come on! We must get back. We can't stay here! 
PING-CHO: No, we'll get caught in it, and we'll never find our way! 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho, come on! 
PING-CHO: No, we must shelter here! 
SUSAN: No. 
(The storm catches them, and their screams are barely audible over the noise of the sand)

[Tent]

BARBARA: Ian, what is it? What's happened? 
IAN: Don't be afraid, Barbara. It's a sandstorm. It sounds as if all the devils in hell were laughing. 
POLO: It's the wind shifting the sand. 
BARBARA: It's terrifying! 
POLO: Not always, Barbara. Sometimes, it sounds like musical instruments being played. The clashing of drums and cymbals. I've heard it sound like a great many people talking as they trekked across the desert. It can also be like a familiar voice calling your name. You're not the only one to be afraid. Travellers of the Gobi Desert have good reason to fear the singing sands, Barbara. 
IAN: It's fantastic that the doctor's still asleep. 
POLO: Tegana's not here. His bed's empty. 
IAN: What? 
POLO: Has anyone seen him? 
IAN: Well, he can't be out in this. 
POLO: He must be. 
BARBARA: Well, what will happen to him? 
POLO: If he finds shelter, he'll be all right. 
BARBARA: Well, can't we do anything? 
POLO: Nothing. 
BARBARA: I think I'll see if the girls are all right. Ping-Cho? 
POLO: Tegana's no fool. He can look after himself. Don't worry. 
BARBARA: They're gone. They're not there! 
IAN: Gone? 
POLO: Barbara, you can't go out there! 
BARBARA: Let go! 
POLO: Barbara, you'll be lost in seconds! 
IAN: Calm down, Barbara! Marco's right. There's nothing we can do. 
BARBARA: The girls. 
POLO: We must wait until the storm calms down. There's nothing we can do now. 
BARBARA: Oh, it's all your fault anyway! If you hadn't kept us prisoner here, none of this would have happened. Susan! Susan!

[Desert]

(The girls are cowering in the sandstorm when they hear the name 'Susan' being called in the wind.) 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho, what's that? There it is again. It's Ian. I can hear him. Ian! Ian! Ian! We're here. Ian! 
(then she screams)

[Tent]

IAN: Let me go look for them. 
POLO: Not until it's light. 
IAN: Let me go as soon as the storm is over. 
POLO: Ian, you'd miss them in the dark. You must wait until it's light. 
(In the desert, Susan stops screaming when she recognises Tegana.) 
(Later, the sand storm has passed) 
BARBARA: We can't just go on sitting here. 
IAN: Shh. The Doctor's still asleep. We don't want him to know about the girls. 
POLO: Barbara, I give you my word that until we find the girls, we will not leave this place. 
(Tegana, Ping-Cho and Susan enter) 
BARBARA: Susan! Do you know you had us half worried to death. Where have you been? 
SUSAN: We went for a walk. 
BARBARA: A walk? 
POLO: Without asking me? Don't you dare do that again, do you understand? That also applies for you, Ping-Cho. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Messer Marco. Has Grandfather been very worried? 
IAN: Luckily for you, he's been asleep the whole time. 
POLO: And we don't want him to know anything about this. I'm surprised that you'd encourage such a venture, Tegana. 
TEGANA: oh, they weren't with me. I found them, crouched behind a sand dune. 
POLO: You were alone? 
TEGANA: Well, it was a pleasant night. I decided for a walk. I told the guard. He knew all about it. 
POLO: In future, the guards will be told to notify me immediately if any of you wish to leave the camp. Now go and change. We have to break camp soon. 
SUSAN: Yes, Messer Marco. 
(Tegana, Ping-Cho and Susan leave) 
BARBARA: This has been a terrible experience for us all, Marco. Couldn't we spend one more night here? 
POLO: I'm sorry, Miss Wright. 
BARBARA: But surely one day can't make all that much difference? 
POLO: One day without progress is one day's water wasted, And in the Gobi Desert that could mean the difference between life and death.

POLO [OC]: Progress today has been good, although we were all very tired after a sleepless night. How can I ever repay Tegana for saving Ping-Cho and Susan? We covered fifteen miles before I gave the order to set up camp for the night.

[The girls' compartment]

PING-CHO: Susan? Susan. 
SUSAN: I still can't get this sand out of my hair. 
PING-CHO: Last night there were moments when I was sure I would never be here again. 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho, did you believe Tegana last night, when he told Messer Marco about going for a walk? 
PING-CHO: Why not? 
SUSAN: Well, I don't think Tegana's the kind of man who goes for a walk just because it's a nice night. I think he goes because he has a reason to go. 
PING-CHO: Susan, why would he lie to Messer Marco? 
SUSAN: I don't know. 
PING-CHO: He's an important man. He's a special emissary of the great Mongol leader who has been at war with Kublai Khan. Tegana is to arrange a peaceful settlement between them. Would a man like that lie about walking in the desert? 
SUSAN: No, no, he wouldn't. That's what's so strange. 
PING-CHO: What? 
SUSAN: The fact that he did.

[Tent]

(Tegana is polishing his sword and Polo is writing in his journal.) 
TEGANA: What is that you do? 
POLO: I keep a journal. 
TEGANA: Why? 
POLO: Because it interests me. 
TEGANA: Marco! 
(Tegana comes at Polo with his sword, but Marco has his own weapon ready) 
TEGANA: That's excellent, excellent. But it's better a man keeps the blade of his sword clean, and it's edge sharp. You continue your writing, Marco. I'll see to the horses tonight. I'll give the guard his instructions. 
POLO: No, send him to me. Please. 
(Outside, Tegana lures away the guard from the supply wagon, then slashes all but one of the water gourds)

[Outside the tent]

(In the morning, Polo, Ian and Barbara are surveying the sabotage) 
IAN: All of them, Marco? 
POLO: Yes, except for the one we're using. 
IAN: How much is there left? 
POLO: Without rationing, enough for today. 
IAN: And with rationing, how long will it last? 
POLO: Three, four days. 
BARBARA: Enough to get us back to Lop? 
POLO: If we're very careful with it, yes. 
IAN: But who would have done it? 
POLO: Bandits, Ian. 
BARBARA: Bandits? In the desert? 
POLO: Yes, it has happened before, but not to me. The bandits follow a caravan out into the desert. Then one night, this happens. The caravan is forced to turn back. Then when everyone is weak through lack of water, the bandits attack. 
IAN: So if we turn back, we're bound to be attacked. 
POLO: Yes. 
TEGANA: Then we shall fight. 
IAN: There must be somewhere else we can go to. 
POLO: The nearest is a small oasis, but that's one weeks journey north from here. 
IAN: Marco, if we pressed really hard, walked day and night, how long would it take us? 
POLO: Five, possibly six days. 
IAN: As long as that? 
POLO: Yes, and with the water rationed we'll be growing weaker all the time. There is another danger, Ian. Bandits always camp near an oasis. 
BARBARA: Then we must go back to Lop. 
IAN: But they're bound to be waiting for us there. No, we must go north, and take a chance. 
POLO: Yes, what Ian says makes sense. We go to the oasis. 
TEGANA: We shall all die of thirst. I will not go. 
POLO: Then what will you do? 
TEGANA: Return to Lop. I'm not afraid of any bandits. Just give me my share of the water. 
POLO: No, Tegana. 
TEGANA: You refuse the War Lord Tegana? 
POLO: I am Commander of this caravan, and I am responsible to Kublai Khan for your safety. We go north together.

POLO [OC]: Have I made the right decision? Each day, our progress towards the oasis becomes less. On the first day, we covered twenty miles. On the second, fifteen. The third, ten. The fourth day's total was eight. Now on the fifth day we have travelled only two miles before the heat of the sun has forced us to stop. We are nearly exhausted, and our situation is perilous.

[Desert]

(They are in the shade of an awning, sharing a little water) 
POLO: The worst of the sun is nearly over. We must move on again as soon we've had this. 
IAN: The bearers have their ration? 
(The water runs out when Polo gets to Ian) 
POLO: No. 
IAN: You take it. 
POLO: We will share. 
DOCTOR: Marco, is this all we're going to get until tonight, hmm? 
POLO: Until we reach the oasis, Doctor, yes. 
BARBARA: There's no more? 
TEGANA: How much further? 
POLO: I cannot say. 
TEGANA: I will go to the oasis and bring back water. 
POLO: You think you could reach the oasis? 
TEGANA: Yes. My horse is still the strongest. 
POLO: Very well, Tegana. 
TEGANA: You wait for me here. 
POLO: No. No, while we can we'll push on towards the oasis. 
IAN: Good luck, Tegana! 
(Tegana rides off) 
POLO: We must go. 
DOCTOR: Susan. 
(The Doctor collapses) 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather! What's the matter with him? 
IAN: He's exhausted. 
POLO: We'll fix up a cot for him in the wagon. 
BARBARA: To be jostled and bumped about? He needs to rest in comfort, Marco. What about the Tardis? 
IAN: He'd be more comfortable, Marco. 
SUSAN: Please, Messer Marco. 
POLO: Very well. The Doctor can travel in his own caravan. Susan, you can go with him. But you, Barbara, and you, Ian, must remain with me. 
IAN: Thank you. Marco, without water, the Doctor isn't going to last twenty four hours. 
POLO: None of us are, Ian, without water. Our fate rests with Tegana.

[Oasis]

(Tegana arrives, drinks and refills his gourd.) 
TEGANA: Here's water, Marco Polo. (pours it on the sand) Come for it!

Episode Three - Five Hundred Eyes

POLO [OC]: What has happened to Tegana? Is he lost? Perhaps he never found the oasis. But in the hope he did, I inched our caravan forward through the night. What misery. A bitterly cold wind swept down from the north and set us shivering as we stumbled on. I fear the end is not far off.

[Camp]

POLO: No sign of Tegana. 
IAN: Nothing but sand. 
POLO: Tegana is our only hope now. 
BARBARA: Surely, he should be back by now. 
POLO: He would not start back from the oasis in the dark for fear of missing us. 
PING-CHO: Then we must get going. 
POLO: Yes. 
IAN: Hot again soon, Marco. Hadn't we better get started? 
POLO: We would not get very far, Ian. No, we must wait here. 
BARBARA: The Doctor and Susan are still in the Tardis. 
IAN: Let them sleep, Barbara.

[Tardis]

(The Doctor is woken by water dripping onto his face) 
DOCTOR: Water! Susan, Susan, child. Susan, wake up. Wake up, quickly! Fetch some cloth and cups. 
SUSAN: All right, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: We must catch the water. We mustn't waste a drop! Come along, child, wake up, quickly! Look at it, streaming down the walls. Look. We must collect it. It's water! 
SUSAN: Water! 
DOCTOR: We must. Quickly, quickly, before the ship heats up in the sun. Hurry, child. Hurry, please.

[Camp]

(Only Ian is still on his feet) 
IAN: Not a sign of him. 
(Susan comes out of the Tardis) 
SUSAN: Water! Look! Water! 
DOCTOR: Please wait. We must be careful. 
POLO: This is in your caravan? 
DOCTOR: Yes, but it's not pure water you see. 
POLO: You told me you weren't carrying any, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: I haven't got any water, don't you understand. I wouldn't allow us to get into this state if I had water, young man. No, this was the water that was running off the walls. It's condensation. It's unbelievable. Condensation, do you understand? 
POLO: No, I do not understand! 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, make him understand. It was condensation off the walls and I 
POLO: The old man lied to me! 
SUSAN: No, he did not lie. 
IAN: Marco, you remember, last night it was cold. Bitterly cold, Marco. The outside of the caravan cooled, but the inside stayed warm, and so moisture formed on the inside. It's condensation, we just call it that. It's just a name. 
SUSAN: That's true, Messer Marco. It was running down the walls, and from the ceiling. We, we took it in this, look, we squeezed it in here. You see? 
DOCTOR: You understand now? 
POLO: I have seen this happen. Let me see you drink it. 
DOCTOR: Not too much. Steady. 
(Barbara takes a sip)

[Oasis]

(The caravan joins Tegana.) 
TEGANA: There were bandits here last night when I arrived, so I had to wait in hiding until this morning when they left. And then when I prepared to leave for you, I saw your caravan coming across the desert towards me. 
POLO: Had the Doctor not discovered water, you might have been too late to save us, Tegana. 
BARBARA: And are those bandits likely to return? 
TEGANA: No, I overheard them saying they were going to ride for Karakorum. 
BARBARA: Karakorum? That used to be to the north, on the great Steppes. 
POLO: It still is, Barbara. Well, the sooner we leave here the better. 
BARBARA: But, Marco 
POLO: This oasis is dangerous, Barbara. We must leave here as soon as possible. 
BARBARA: Marco, we're all in need of rest, and the Doctor is still very weak. 
POLO: We will stay here until tomorrow morning, no longer. Please tell the others. 
(She leaves Polo and Tegana alone) 
POLO: What amuses you? 
TEGANA: You don't really believe their story, do you, of water forming inside a caravan? 
POLO: Yes. I know it to be true. 
(meanwhile, elsewhere) 
DOCTOR: I think I can repair the circuit in a week, maybe less. 
BARBARA: We're leaving here tomorrow. 
DOCTOR: Oh, we're always rushing around. A good day's rest would do us all a lot of good. 
BARBARA: Marco's worried about bandits. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish. 
BARBARA: Tegana said there were some here last night. Well, if they were, they were very clean about it. 
IAN: What do you mean? 
BARBARA: Look, last night was very cold, but there's no sign of a fire having been lit. 
IAN: Perhaps they didn't want anyone to know they'd been here. 
BARBARA: Yes, that may be. But I think Tegana just used the bandits as an excuse for not coming back to us with water. 
IAN: Maybe. Well, the thing to do is to ask Tegana. 
TEGANA: Ask Tegana what? 
IAN: How many bandits were there here last night? 
TEGANA: Twelve. 
IAN: It was a cold night. Didn't they light a fire? 
POLO: If they had, Ian, the remains would still be visible. Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well? 
POLO: Barbara may have told you that we're leaving here tomorrow, so get all the rest you can today. You may use your caravan again, but before we leave in the morning, it will be locked and the key handed over to me. 
DOCTOR: Young man, you have no concept of what is happening, have you? And you still don't seem to realise that you're speaking to a man of superior intellect.

POLO [OC]: My conscience pricks me. I was adamant despite the Doctor's protests, that the key and his caravan should be handed over to me. Now we journey on across this burning desert and I shall not rest until I see the temple spires of the city of Tun-Huang.

[Tun-Huang Way Station]

(The Tardis has been placed in the courtyard.) 
SUSAN: I've never seen so many temples in my life. 
PING-CHO: Tun-Huang is a famous city, Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: Isn't the cave of the Thousand Buddhas near here? 
SUSAN: Thousand Buddhas? 
POLO: Yes. Have you heard of the cave of the Five Hundred Eyes? 
BARBARA: No, I haven't. 
PING-CHO: I do not know that one either, Messer Marco. 
BARBARA: I'm intrigued by this cave, Marco. Why is it called Five Hundred Eyes? 
POLO: On the walls are painted the faces of two hundred and fifty evil men who once lived there. They were the Hashashins. 
SUSAN: Hashashins? 
POLO: Yes, and they were so called because they used a drug, hashish. 
SUSAN: Are there still Hashashins in the cave? 
POLO: No, Susan. They were put to the sword twenty years ago by a great Mongol conqueror called Hulagu. 
PING-CHO: There is a story of Hulagu and the Hashashins. 
SUSAN: Oh, tell it to us, Ping-Cho. 
PING-CHO: Later, if you wish. 
SUSAN: Why not now? 
PING-CHO: It needs preparation. 
SUSAN: Oh.

[Courtyard]

DOCTOR: It seems we shall be stopping here for a while. It means I can get on with more work. 
IAN: Huh? 
DOCTOR: Repairing the circuit, young man. 
IAN: Aren't you forgetting something, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Don't you realise they will be much less vigilant? I shall be able to sneak into the Tardis, no worry at all. 
IAN: Yes, but you've given Marco Polo the key. 
DOCTOR: A key, my boy. A key. What use do you think it's going to be to him, hmmm? And where do you suppose I got that from? 
IAN: I have no idea. 
DOCTOR: I made it. 
IAN: Made it? When? 
DOCTOR: On the night of the oasis. Only chance I had. She knows all about it, don't you, Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: You crafty old fox. 
SUSAN: Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Yes? 
SUSAN: What do you know about the Hashashin? 
DOCTOR: Well, now, let me think, let me think. Yes, they were some kind of sect. Why? 
SUSAN: Well, Ping-Cho knows a story and she's going to tell us about it. 
DOCTOR: Oh, how delightful. Yes, yes, why not?

[Tun-Huang Way Station]

BARBARA: Ian, Ian, I must talk to you. 
IAN: What is it? 
BARBARA: It's about Tegana. I caught him off-guard. 
IAN: Shh. Later. Come and sit over here. 
BARBARA: No, I'll be all right over here. 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho. Oh, Ping-Cho, are you ready? 
PING-CHO: I am ready, Susan. 
SUSAN: Oh, good. 
PING-CHO: Gracious maidens, gentle lords, pray attend me while I tell my tale of Ala-eddin, the Old Man of the Mountains, who by devious schemes, evil designs and foul murders ruled the land. 
No host of arms, no vast array of banners served this wicked lord. They were but few, ruthless, reckless men who obeyed his cruel commands. 
Thus did he persuade them. 
Promising paradise, he gave his followers a potent draught and whilst they slept transported them to a vale where streams of milk and honey, wine and water, flowed. 
Here were gardens and flowers of every hue and essence. Here, too Golden pavilions outshone the sun and even the stars of heaven envied the bejewelled interiors strewn with incomparable silks, tapestries, and treasures. 
Hand-maidens, dulcet-voiced, soft of face, attended them, and thus bemused did they dwell in this man-made paradise until Ala-eddin intent upon some evil deed, proffered again the hashish draught and brought them sleeping to his castle. 
What lord, are we cast out of paradise? Awakening, they cried. 
Not so. Go abroad, seek out my enemies and strike them down. But care not for your lives. Paradise is eternal. 
So terror stalked the land for many years. Then one day, came mighty Hulagu to stand before Ala-eddin's lair for three long years in siege. Thus fell Ala-eddin and his men. 
Now honest hands reap harvests of life From the soil where death and evil reigned. And those who journey through the vale are heard to say 'tis truly paradise today. 
(a well deserved round of applause.) 
(Barbara follows Tegana leaving the room) 
DOCTOR: That was really delightful, Ping-Cho. 
PING-CHO: My lord is kind. 
POLO: Thank you, Ping-Cho. 
IAN: Charming, Ping-Cho, charming. Susan, do you know that we use the word Hashashin in English today? 
SUSAN: No. 
IAN: Yes. Assassins. 
SUSAN: Assassin! 
IAN: Yes. 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho, is the lair of Ala-eddin near here? 
PING-CHO: No, Susan. It was on a mountain called Mount Alumet in Persia. 
SUSAN: Persia? But Messer Marco said that Hulagu killed the Hashashins near here. 
POLO: So he did, Susan. Some of Ala-eddin's followers lived near here, in the cave of Five Hundred Eyes.

[Cave of 500 Eyes]

TEGANA: Malik? Malik? 
MALIK: Who calls my name? 
TEGANA: Tegana, the Mongol War Lord. 
MALIK: We have waited for you Tegana. 
TEGANA: You need wait no more, old man. What news from Noghai? 
MALIK: You shall hear it. You shall hear it. Come, follow me. 
(Tegana follows Malik along a passage. Malik twists a stalactite and a secret door opens to reveal...)

[Inner Chamber]

ACOMAT: Welcome. 
TEGANA: Acomat! What news from Noghai? 
ACOMAT: He has formed his army and marches now for Karakorum. 
TEGANA: Good. 
ACOMAT: Where he will await news of your success. 
TEGANA: I will not fail him. 
ACOMAT: You failed at Lop. You were to meet our courier on the third night in the desert. 
TEGANA: There was a sandstorm. 
ACOMAT: He did not return. 
MALIK: Before the courier left, he spoke of gift to Noghai. 
TEGANA: Yes, a caravan that flies. It belongs to an old magician who accompanies us. Polo's taking it to the Kublai Khan. 
ACOMAT: With such a caravan, Noghai would be invincible. 
TEGANA: Yes, that is why you must capture it. You will attack our caravan as we're going to Shang-Tu. 
ACOMAT: It shall be done. 
TEGANA: And then, deliver it to Noghai. 
ACOMAT: And Polo and those that go with him? What of them? Kill them? 
TEGANA: Of course. 
(A Mongol whispers to Malik) 
MALIK: Did a woman accompany you here? 
TEGANA: No. 
MALIK: There is one in the outer cave now. 
(Barbara is feeling her way along the passage. She gets to the dead end and turns back to the entrance, where a Mongol is waiting to grab her. Obligatory scream)

[Tun-Huang Way Station]

POLO: This is the most dangerous thing she could have done! What kind of country do you come from where a woman can wander alone through the streets at night? 
TEGANA: You will never find her alive in Tun-Huang. 
IAN: We won't find her sitting here. 
POLO: Wait, Ian. We will search together. The city is divided into distinct areas. Tegana, you will take one, we will take another. We will meet back here in two hours time. 
IAN: Let's get started. 
DOCTOR: Do you need my help? 
POLO: No, Doctor, you stay here. And nobody else move. 
(Ian, Polo and Tegana leave) 
DOCTOR: Don't worry, child. We'll find her. Don't worry.

[Courtyard]

(It is night, and a spy is watching as the Doctor sneaks across to the Tardis) 
SUSAN: Grandfather. Grandfather. Don't worry about Ping-Cho, you can trust her. 
DOCTOR: Well, it looks as though I must, doesn't it? What is it, hmm? 
SUSAN: We think we might know where Barbara is. 
DOCTOR: Oh, where? 
PING-CHO: Messer Marco was telling us about the Cave of Five Hundred Eyes. 
SUSAN: Yes, and Barbara was very interested. So we thought she might have gone off to a look without asking anybody, because Messer Marco might have tried to stop her. 
DOCTOR: Do you know where this Cave of Five Hundred Eyes is? 
PING-CHO: I do not know, my lord, but Chenchu would know. 
(the spy comes out of hiding) 
DOCTOR: Aha, my friend! And how long have you been lurking there, hmmm? 
CHENCHU: I arrived this very moment my lord. 
DOCTOR: Where is the Cave of Five Hundred Eyes? 
CHENCHU: The Cave of Five Hundred 
DOCTOR: Yes. Where is it? 
CHENCHU: On the road to Su-Chow, my Lord. Set back against the foothills. 
DOCTOR: Well, how far is it from here? 
CHENCHU: About a third of a league, my lord. 
DOCTOR: A mile, a mile, yes. Now you two go back in there and wait. Go along, go along, go along. 
CHENCHU: My lord is going there now, at this time of night? But it is haunted, my lord. The spirits of the Hashashins walk. You should not go, my lord. 
SUSAN: You mustn't go there alone, Grandfather. And anyway, we must stay with you. 
PING-CHO: Messer Marco will be angry. He told us to stay here. 
DOCTOR: Never mind about him. Which road? 
CHENCHU: The road to Su-Chow. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, you'll never find it on your own. Come on. 
DOCTOR: Yes, all right, if you insist. Then come along, both of you, quickly. 
CHENCHU: Do not go, my lord. Not at night. You will not come back alive!

[Cave of 500 Eyes]

(The Doctor, Susan and Ping-Cho enter) 
PING-CHO: Frightening. 
SUSAN: Look at those eyes. 
PING-CHO: I'd prefer not to, Susan. 
DOCTOR: How extraordinary. Look. Yes, it's quartz. Yes, a mineral ore. Look, you see the veins going through the rock structure. And look how cleverly that face is carved so that at the eye the quartz is exposed. Now, isn't that interesting, hmm? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, we're supposed to be looking for Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Barbara? Oh yes, of course. Yes, yes, we mustn't waste time. No. Come on. Now, let's see if we can find the spirits.

[Tun-Huang Way Station]

CHENCHU: My lord? 
TEGANA: Oh, it's you. 
CHENCHU: He's gone, my lord. 
TEGANA: Gone? 
CHENCHU: The old lord has gone. After you had gone, the young ladies approached me. They were looking for him. 
TEGANA: Well, wasn't he in his room? 
CHENCHU: Not so, my lord. He was out there. That's where they found him. That's why I came and told you, my lord. But he forced me to tell him the way to the cave. 
TEGANA: What cave? 
CHENCHU: He forced me, my lord. He forced me. 
TEGANA: What cave! 
CHENCHU: The Cave of Five Hundred Eyes. 
TEGANA: You fool! 
CHENCHU: He forced me.

[Cave of 500 Eyes]

DOCTOR: A fool's errand, it's a fool's errand, child. That's what you've brought me on. And I had so much work to do in the Tardis. Now, come along, we mustn't waste any more time here. Barbara's probably in bed and asleep by now. If you had any sense, where both of you should be. 
(Ping-Cho finds a dropped handkerchief.) 
PING-CHO: My lord, look. 
DOCTOR: Hmmm? 
SUSAN: That's Barbara's. She must have been here. Barbara! 
PING-CHO: Miss Wright! SUSAN: Barbara! 
(In the secret chamber, one Mongol has a knife at Barbara's throat whilst another looks through a peep-hole in the wall) 
SUSAN: Barbara! 
PING-CHO: Miss Wright! 
DOCTOR: Miss Wright! 
SUSAN: Barbara! Barbara! Barbara! (screams) They moved! The eyes moved!

Episode Four - The Wall of Lies

[Tun-Huang Way Station]

CHENCHU: Oh, Tegana took a horse, and rode off. 
POLO: To the Cave of Five Hundred Eyes? 
CHENCHU: So I believe my lord. 
POLO: When will your companions realise I know what I'm talking about when I say it's dangerous to wander about at night? First Barbara, and now the Doctor goes off, taking Susan and Ping-Cho with him. 
IAN: All right, Marco, you can be angry later. Let's get to this cave. Do you know where it is? 
POLO: Yes.

[Cave of 500 Eyes]

(The Doctor is examining the eyes) 
DOCTOR: It must be your imagination, child. These eyes didn't move. It's quartz. 
SUSAN: I saw them move, Grandfather. I swear I did. 
DOCTOR: Oh rubbish, child. 
PING-CHO: Look. Look. 
DOCTOR: Tegana! 
TEGANA: What are you doing here? 
DOCTOR: If you must know, sir, we are looking for Miss Wright. 
TEGANA: Well, why would she be in this cave? 
DOCTOR: I think this is your answer. We found it. 
(the handkerchief) 
TEGANA: You found that here? 
SUSAN: Yes. Over there. 
TEGANA: In the passageway. It is not wise to remain in these caves. They are possessed with evil spirits. 
DOCTOR: I'm not afraid of ghosts. 
TEGANA: Oh, yes, I forgot. You're the magician, aren't you? 
IAN [OC]: Doctor? Susan? 
SUSAN: That's Ian. Ian! 
IAN [OC]: Susan! 
SUSAN: Ian! 
DOCTOR: Ian! 
IAN [OC]: Doctor, where are you? 
SUSAN: Ian! Over here! 
DOCTOR: Over here. 
IAN [OC]: Doctor! 
SUSAN: Round the corner! 
DOCTOR: Over here, my boy. 
IAN: Doctor! Ah. Have you found Barbara? 
SUSAN: No. 
DOCTOR: Just this handkerchief. We found that over there. 
IAN: This is Barbara's. 
TEGANA: Leave before the spirits are angered. 
DOCTOR: This man thinks this cave is haunted. 
PING-CHO: He's not the only one. Susan saw the eyes in one of the faces move. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish, child, rubbish. 
IAN: Which face, Susan? 
SUSAN: This one here. 
IAN: Marco, quick. Look! 
TEGANA: Do not strike them down, great spirits of Hashashin. Depart! The War Lord Tegana entreats you. 
IAN: Is it safe for us to look now? 
TEGANA: Do as you will. 
(Tegana leaves) 
DOCTOR: Well, what are you looking for, Chesterton? 
IAN: Susan was right. She did see the eyes move. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish, rubbish. 
SUSAN: Of course I did. 
DOCTOR: What proof have you? 
IAN: I've just seen them move myself. Look. These eyes you see here have been set in from behind. There must be some sort of a room behind this rock face. Look, there's a crack. There's a door here. 
POLO: Yes. All we need now is to find out how to open it. 
(The door swings open without their help) 
POLO: Ian! 
(a Mongol is about to kill Barbara, so Polo overpowers him. Ian unties Barbara.) 
IAN: It's all right, Barbara. 
BARBARA: There were four of them. They played dice to see who'd kill me, and he won. He won. 
IAN: All right Barbara. You're safe now Barbara. Safe now. Don't worry.

[Tun-Huang Way Station]

POLO: We were just in time, Tegana. A moment or two later, and she would have been killed. 
TEGANA: What is that to you? 
POLO: I'm responsible for their safety. 
TEGANA: Why not let them go on their way. 
POLO: My conscience does not permit it. Look, I took their caravan away from them. The least I can do is see them safely on their way home. 
TEGANA: You think they hold you in such esteem? 
POLO: The Doctor, no, with good reason. The others, yes. 
TEGANA: Marco, which one leads them? 
POLO: The Doctor. 
TEGANA: And leaders are obeyed. Has not that cunning Susan already won Ping-Cho from your side? 
POLO: She's a child, Tegana. 
TEGANA: Only a fool defends his enemies. Be warned, Marco. They will set us at each other's throats by lies and deceit, and then, when they have divided us, then they will destroy us one by one. 
POLO: They are harmless, Tegana. 
TEGANA: Harmless? They possess a caravan that flies. 
POLO: What power they have is locked inside it, and I have the key. 
TEGANA: This very evening, Marco, when we were out looking for this Barbara, Chenchu thought the old man was in his room and he was not. Marco, he was out there with his caravan. 
POLO: What are you saying? 
TEGANA: I'm saying, does a magician need a key to open a door? 
(Ian, Barbara, Susan and Ping-Cho enter.) 
POLO: How are you feeling? 
BARBARA: Still bit shaky. 
POLO: You realise you're most fortunate to be alive. 
BARBARA: Yes, I know. 
POLO: Why did you go to the cave? You know my rule about obtaining permission to leave here. 
IAN: Tell him, Barbara. 
BARBARA: I followed Tegana there. 
TEGANA: Me? I've only been there once, and you were there when I arrived. 
BARBARA: But that's not true. I followed you there. 
TEGANA: I have only been there once. 
BARBARA: But why would I lie? I was almost killed. 
POLO: Be quiet! 
TEGANA: Mark well all that I have said. 
POLO: Tegana. 
TEGANA: My friend, mark it well. 
(Tegana leaves, then eavesdrops from the top of the stairs.) 
POLO: Ping-Cho, you will remove your belongings to another room. From this night on, you will not share with Susan again. 
PING-CHO: But Messer Marco 
POLO: Obey me!

POLO [OC]: Poor Susan and Ping-Cho. Yet what alternative had I but to separate them? Now my caravan seethes with suspicion and discontent as we journey south-west. The route takes us to the ancient cities of Su-Chow and Kan-Chow, where the Great Wall of Cathay begins. Following the wall, we travel south to Lan-Chow, which lies on the banks of the Yellow River. Here, our route swings north, and with the river always in sight, we journey towards Shang-Tu.

[Tent]

DOCTOR: The trouble is, Polo's change of attitude has slowed down my progress on the circuit. 
IAN: I think you've done brilliantly to make any progress at all, Doctor. 
BARBARA: How much longer do you think you'll need? 
DOCTOR: Well, with a bit more time, and a lot of luck, I should say about another night. 
BARBARA: But that's marvellous, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: The following evening will even be better. 
BARBARA: And that's when we say goodbye to Marco Polo. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and a jolly good riddance. 
BARBARA: Well, I shall be jolly glad to leave here. In fact, the only regrets I'll have will be for Susan. 
DOCTOR: What do you mean? 
BARBARA: Oh, I think she and Ping-Cho are very fond of each other. It's a pity they've been kept apart so much. 
DOCTOR: It's a pity there was any association at all. That Chinese child makes me nervous. 
IAN: What on Earth do you mean? 
DOCTOR: She found out about the key. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: Yes, on the night that Barbara was captured. Susan and Ping-Cho thought Barbara had gone down to the cave and met with an accident, so they came looking for me just as I was about to enter the Tardis. It was then Ping-Cho saw the key.

[Outside the tent]

SUSAN: Ping-Cho, what's the matter? 
PING-CHO: For me this journey, in spite of all the dangers, was the happiest time of my life, until Tun-Huang. 
SUSAN: What did Tegana say to make Messer Marco change so much? Did you ask Messer Marco? 
PING-CHO: A hundred times, but he remains silent. 
SUSAN: If only we could find out. If only we could prove that Tegana had seen the Cave of Five Hundred Eyes before. 
PING-CHO: It won't make much difference soon. 
SUSAN: Why not? 
PING-CHO: You will be leaving. 
SUSAN: Leaving? 
PING-CHO: Your grandfather must have nearly finished the work in your caravan by now. 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho, he has. 
PING-CHO: Will you go home? Will you say goodbye to me before you leave? 
SUSAN: Of course I will. 
PING-CHO: Even if it is very late? 
SUSAN: No matter what time of night it is. 
PING-CHO: Hey, this'll cheer you up. 
SUSAN: What? 
PING-CHO: I've forgotten hearing anything about the key. 
(But Tegana has been eavesdropping)

POLO [OC]: For the past three days, I have followed the course of the Yellow River as it flows north to the small town of Sinju, which lies nestled against the Great Wall.

[Sinju Way Station Courtyard]

POLO: Have you seen my clothing bag, Tegana? 
TEGANA: Er, yes, it's in the passageway outside your door. 
POLO: Thank you. 
TEGANA: Oh, I want to go into town. 
POLO: Very well. 
TEGANA: Thank you. 
(Polo and Tegana leave) 
PING-CHO: The passageway. Why have I not thought of it before? Susan? Susan, I've got proof. I can prove it! 
SUSAN: What? 
PING-CHO: That Tegana lied. 
POLO: You can prove what? 
PING-CHO: Messer Marco, do you remember Tegana's reply when Miss Wright said she had followed him to the Cave of Five Hundred Eyes? 
POLO: Yes, he said he'd never been there before. 
PING-CHO: He lied, Messer Marco. 
POLO: You bring a very serious charge, Ping-Cho. I hope you have proof. 
PING-CHO: When he came into the cave, Susan's grandfather showed him Miss Wright's handkerchief, saying we had found it over there, and the old lord pointed to a dark corner of the cave. And do you remember what he said? He asked if we had found it in the passageway. 
POLO: Well? 
PING-CHO: If he had never been to the cave before, how could he know that the dark corner was a passageway? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
POLO: This is your proof? You call this evidence? 
PING-CHO: Yes, Messer Marco. 
POLO: And on these grounds you dare to call the War Lord Tegana a liar? You foolish child, how dare you make such a reckless accusation. Believe me, it will take much more than this to shake my confidence in Tegana.

[Tea Room]

ACOMAT: It was your fault. You should have killed them all when you 
TEGANA: You listen to me, Acomat, and you listen well. The day after tomorrow, the caravan sets out to cross the bamboo forest. On the second night, I shall silence the guard, and then when all is well, I shall signal you with a burning torch. Then you will move in and slaughter them all. But with stealth, mind you. 
ACOMAT: And the magician's caravan? 
TEGANA: You will send that on to Noghai, whilst I will continue on to Shang-Tu with terrible stories of bandit attacks. 
ACOMAT: Polo? 
TEGANA: Well, I should let Polo die like an old woman in her bed. 
ACOMAT: The old magician. How can you kill him? 
TEGANA: With a stake through the heart.

[Sinju Way Station door]

(night) 
DOCTOR: There isn't very much more to do. I won't be long. Keep your eyes open. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
(But there's a guard posted near Tardis, so the Doctor hides and waits until he walks away. Then he uses the real key to let himself into the Tardis) 
(Barbara sees Tegana enter the courtyard and go to look at the Tardis. She goes back inside)

[Sinju Way Station]

BARBARA: Ian? 
(As the Doctor works in the Tardis, Barbara talks to Ian and Susan) 
BARBARA: I think Tegana must have seen him going into it. 
IAN: Where's Tegana now? 
BARBARA: I don't know. 
IAN: Stay here. 
(Ian looks around the courtyard) 
IAN: Not a sign of him. Where's Marco? 
SUSAN: He must be in his room. 
IAN: Good. Now listen. Go and get the Doctor out of the ship, then hide. I'm going to try a bluff. If it works, we may be able to turn the tables on Tegana. Now, go quickly. 
(Barbara and Susan leaves, then Polo comes down the stairs) 
IAN: Ah, Marco, I was just coming to have a word with you. 
POLO: What about? 
IAN: Well, I should have thought that was pretty obvious. 
POLO: Be more explicit, Ian. 
IAN: Oh, come on Marco, we're friends aren't we? 
POLO: We were. 
IAN: Well, why the sudden change? And tell me, why separate Susan and Ping-Cho? 
POLO: Susan's a bad influence. 
IAN: Oh, you can't really mean that. 
POLO: Ping-Cho's first loyalty is to me, yet she backed you against Tegana. 
IAN: Perhaps that's because we were telling the truth. It is possible, you know. 
POLO: Let me tell you something, Ian. Tegana is a special emissary of Noghai, on his way to talk peace with Kublai Khan. He's a very important man. You are mysterious travellers from some far off land I know nothing about. Now, if you were in my position, a servant of Kublai Khan, whose word would you take? 
IAN: Well, I should keep an open mind. 
(Tegana enters.) 
TEGANA: Marco, I have something rather interesting to show you. 
POLO: What is it? 
TEGANA: The old magician is in his caravan. 
POLO: He's what? Is this true, Ian? 
IAN: Well, why don't we go outside and have a look?

[Sinju Way Station Courtyard]

POLO: Are you sure about this? 
TEGANA: He's got another key. I saw him go inside. 
IAN: So all we can do now is wait for him to come out. 
POLO: This you are prepared to do? 
IAN: If it'll convince you that Tegana is making trouble, we can wait here all night. 
POLO: Tegana, are you absolutely positive? 
TEGANA: When the War Lord Tegana says it is so, Marco, it is so. He is in there. 
(The Doctor comes out of the Tardis) 
IAN: Doctor, lock the door quickly! 
POLO: I'm sorry I doubted your word, Tegana. Give me the key, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No. 
POLO: You're an old man and I do not wish to use force. 
DOCTOR: That is what you'll precisely have to do, Polo. 
(Tegana wrenches the key from the Doctor) 
TEGANA: Did I not say he had another key? 
DOCTOR: Put that key in the lock, Polo, and you will destroy the ship. Then where will your precious Khan be, hmmm? You need more than a key to enter my ship. You need knowledge. Knowledge you will never possess. 
POLO: Tell me. 
DOCTOR: No, understand? No! I'd let you wreck it first! 
POLO: Guards! Guards! 
(The guards have already taken Barbara and Susan) 
DOCTOR: Let go of me! 
POLO: Bear witness. I wear the gold seal of Kublai Khan, and by the authority it invests in me, I do hereby seize and hold your caravan in his name. Be warned. Any resistance to this decree is instantly punishable by death. 
DOCTOR: You poor, pathetic, stupid savage. 
POLO: Take them away! 
TEGANA: Marco, are you now convinced which of us makes trouble?

POLO [OC]: What a nightmare this journey has become. Our progress is impeded because Tegana, the bearers and I must constantly be on the alert for any signs of trouble from the prisoners, and Ping-Cho's resentment of me only serves to make my task more difficult. But I have succeeded in keeping her away from them by setting up a separate tent for the Doctor and his companions.

[Doctor's Tent]

IAN: We can't go on like this. We must get out! 
(He breaks a plate) 
BARBARA: That's easier said than done. 
IAN: I know Barbara. I know the odds are against us, but at least we've got to try. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I quite agree with you. The ship's waiting outside, with the circuit finished and installed. 
BARBARA: And Polo has both keys. 
DOCTOR: Oh, that wretched child. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, Ping-Cho wouldn't tell him about the second key. I know she wouldn't. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear Susan 
IAN: Oh, don't you worry about that now. We must concentrate on getting one of those keys back. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and the only way I can see it, is that we should have to capture Polo. 
IAN: Why not? Take him hostage. 
BARBARA: But we're hopelessly outnumbered. 
IAN: Only by day. At night, we've got the edge on them. They've only got one guard, remember. 
SUSAN: Yes, but how are you going to disarm him? 
IAN: I don't know. Somehow. I'll do it. 
DOCTOR: Now just a minute. First things first, young man. How are we going to get out of here, and remember that guard is out there watching for us, hmmm? 
(Ian picks up a piece of broken plate.) 
IAN: With this. I'll cut my way out. 
DOCTOR: That's a very good idea. Good. 
IAN: As soon as I've dealt with that guard, I'll come back for you. 
DOCTOR: Right. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, supposing Messer Marco won't give him the keys? 
DOCTOR: Don't worry, my child. I think by the time I've finished with that gentleman, he'll only be too glad to let us go. 
(Ian cuts his way out of the tent and finds the guard, but he is already dead)

Episode Five - Rider From Shang-Tu

[Bamboo Forest]

(In the darkness, two men are observing the caravan) 
ACOMAT: Are the men in position? 
MONGOL: The caravan is surrounded, my lord. 
ACOMAT: Do they know the signal to attack? 
MONGOL: Each one has been told that lord Tegana will wave a burning torch. 
ACOMAT: Then we shall watch for it.

[Outside the tent]

DOCTOR: What's the matter? Did you kill him? 
IAN: No, of course not. He was dead. 
BARBARA: Dead? 
IAN: Yes, he's been stabbed. 
BARBARA: Bandits? 
IAN: They must be just on the point of attacking us. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, what are we going to do? 
DOCTOR: Well, continue with our plan, get the keys, and get out of here as soon as possible. 
SUSAN: Tegana! 
IAN: We're already too late, Doctor. The only thing I can do now is warn Marco. 
BARBARA: Be careful, Ian. 
IAN: I will.

[Marco Polo's compartment]

IAN: Marco. Marco, wake up. No, no, it's all right. Marco, the guard's dead, I think we're in for a bandit attack. 
POLO: Bandits? Where's Tegana? 
IAN: He's outside. I didn't tell him. I thought it best to tell you first.

[Camp]

(Tegana puts his burning torch back on the fire.) 
POLO: Tegana, wake the bearers. 
TEGANA: What is it? 
POLO: Bandits. 
TEGANA: What's he doing free? 
POLO: Never mind about that. A guard's been killed. Now, wake the bearers and get some swords, quickly. Call the others. 
IAN: Doctor, Susan, Barbara, quickly, here. 
POLO: Miss Wright, Susan, go into the tent and stay there. 
SUSAN: What about Ping-Cho? 
POLO: Now, she sleeps now, but if she wakes up, make sure she stays with you. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
(Susan and Barbara go into Ping-Cho's tent. Tegana enters, fully armed) 
POLO: Are the bearers awake? 
TEGANA: Yes, they've taken their positions around the edge of the camp. 
POLO: Do you know how to use one of these? 
IAN: No, but given half a chance, I'll learn. 
DOCTOR: Pardon me. 
POLO: (gives a sword to the Doctor) If you're half as aggressive with this as you are with your tongue, Doctor, we can't lose. 
IAN: How many of them are there likely to be? 
POLO: Oh, more than enough for us. 
DOCTOR: Well, we look a bit silly standing here, don't we? 
POLO: Then what do you suggest we do? 
DOCTOR: Use the Tardis. 
POLO: Your caravan? To go where? 
DOCTOR: Yes, get out of here, anywhere where it's safe. 
TEGANA: Look, this is another of the magician's tricks. I don't believe there are any bandits. 
POLO: Tegana, a guard is dead. 
TEGANA: Could they have not killed him? What better way to give this lie the ring of truth. 
IAN: Not everyone lives by your standards, Tegana. 
TEGANA: Well, where are these bandits if there are any? Why haven't they attacked? I warn you Marco, if you go in their caravan, they will surely destroy you. 
DOCTOR: If you believe that, Polo, you're a bigger fool that even I think you are. 
POLO: You deceived me before, Doctor. No, we will not use your caravan. If there are bandits, we shall fight. 
DOCTOR: Well, we're not going to get very far with this overgrown bread knife! We shall have to use more enterprise than this. 
IAN: The Doctor's right, Marco. We need more than these swords. Wait a minute. Perhaps we can outwit them. 
POLO: How? 
IAN: We'll use this bamboo. 
POLO: Well, what good would that do? 
IAN: If we throw it on the fire, it'll expand and blow up. It's a terrifying noise. It's worth a chance, Marco. 
POLO: Let us hope time is our ally.

[Bamboo Forest]

ACOMAT: What keeps him then? The moon will soon rise to deny us darkness. 
MONGOL: Perhaps he is sleeping. 
ACOMAT: True. He is not as young as we are. Tell the others that unless he signals before the moon's first light, we attack then. 
MONGOL: As my lord commands. 
ACOMAT: But not with stealth, as lord Tegana wished. We'll make sport of it.

[Camp]

(The Doctor is dozing as Polo and Ian put bamboo by the fire.) 
POLO: Does the lamb conceal the wolf, or the wolf the lamb? Were you trying to escape? 
IAN: Yes. 
POLO: It was very reckless of you. 
IAN: It was the only thing we could do. 
POLO: Even though failure might have meant death? 
IAN: We hoped we'd succeed. 
POLO: Tell me, Ian, what were you going to do to me? 
IAN: Take the key from you, and use you as a hostage until we were safely at the Tardis. 
POLO: Then, I shall have to be more careful in future. 
IAN: Marco, I wish I could explain to you how important the Tardis is to us. 
POLO: And I wish I could explain to you, Ian, how important it is to me. 
IAN: The moon will soon be up. 
POLO: Yes, we must gamble that the attack comes now. Tegana, wake the bearers. 
TEGANA: They are alert, Marco. 
IAN: All three of them, that makes seven. We can wake the Doctor. Marco, the bamboo will need time to heat up. 
POLO: Yes, we must gamble that the attack comes now. 
(They put bamboo on the fire) 
TEGANA: There are no bandits! This was all a ruse. 
(A flock of birds rises.) 
IAN: A ruse, Tegana? 
POLO: Good luck, Ian. 
IAN: Doctor, wake up. The bandits. 
(They take up their weapons and wait. Then the Mongols attack.) 
ACOMAT: So, the mighty War Lord is awake! 
(Tegana kills Acomat. The bamboo starts exploding, and the Mongols run back into the forest) 
IAN: They're running! They're running! We've won! We've won! 
SUSAN: What was the explosion? 
POLO: Bamboo. The bandits thought there were devils in the fire, and fled. 
DOCTOR: No, it wasn't the devils in the fire. Their leader was killed. That's why they broke up and ran. 
TEGANA: Well, in battle all men face death. 
DOCTOR: And few expect to meet it, hmm?

POLO [OC]: At sunrise, we buried the dead, broke camp, travelled to the edge of the bamboo forest, and out beyond it onto the plain. But at midday, as we were all tired after the events of the previous night, I ordered a halt.

[Tent]

(The Doctor, Ian and Barbara are sitting at a table) 
BARBARA: Surely he can't punish us! By trying to escape, we saved his life. 
DOCTOR: If that fool had any decency at all, he'd let us go. 
IAN: I doubt if he'll do that, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Well, then we must go on trying to escape. The circuit's finished, and all we need are those keys. 
IAN: That's not going to be very easy, is it, after last night. Marco's bound to be on his guard. 
(Polo and Tegana enter.) 
POLO: I have a question to ask all of you. Will you promise on your honour, not to attempt another escape? 
(silence) 
POLO: So be it. 
DOCTOR: We sacrificed our freedom to save you. 
POLO: Yes, I know. And in return, I revoke the seizure of your caravan by official decree. 
DOCTOR: Huh. Very noble of you, I'm sure. 
IAN: What you're really saying, Marco, is that we're no longer Kublai Khan's prisoners, only yours? 
POLO: That's right. 
DOCTOR: Thanks for nothing. 
POLO: All the freedoms you enjoyed before will be restored. Susan and Ping-Cho can share each other's company, and no guards will watch you by night. 
DOCTOR: And the keys to the Tardis? 
POLO: As before, Doctor, they remain with me. And I shall be guarded day and night. 
TEGANA: Marco, let me be your sword. 
POLO: You are in my charge, Tegana, not I in yours. 
(Polo leaves.) 
TEGANA: Work your magic on him if you will, but make no move against me. 
(Tegana leaves.) 
IAN: He knows we're on to him. 
DOCTOR: Strange that Tegana should watch the fire. A sort of menial job he'd order a guard to do. 
BARBARA: How could he? The guard was dead. 
IAN: Tegana wasn't to know that, otherwise he'd have given the alarm. 
DOCTOR: Would he? 
IAN: You mean he was implicated in the attack? 
DOCTOR: Of course he was. The bandit knew him. I'm certain he did. 
BARBARA: Ian, do you remember that bandit we buried this morning? I knew I'd seen him somewhere before. He was in the Cave of Five Hundred Eyes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and he had to kill him or be exposed. 
IAN: But what's Tegana's game? What's he after? 
DOCTOR: My ship. 
IAN: Oh, no, Doctor, he's terrified of it. It must be something else. Whatever it is, we're in the way, that's for sure. 
BARBARA: Marco too? 
IAN: I don't know. Maybe. 
BARBARA: Well, shouldn't we warn 
DOCTOR: No, no, ssh ssh. We mustn't be impetuous. We must choose the right moment carefully. 
(Susan and Ping-Cho enter with Ling-Tau.) 
SUSAN: This is a courier from Kublai Khan. Have you seen Messer Marco? 
IAN: Yes, he's in there. 
PING-CHO: Please be seated. 
LING-TAU: Thank you, my lady. 
PING-CHO: I will fetch him. 
SUSAN: His name is Ling-Tau. 
IAN: You look as though you've travelled far. 
LING-TAU: From the summer palace at Shang-Tu, my Lord.

[Marco Polo's compartment]

(Marco Polo hides the Tardis keys in the spine of his journal as Ping-Cho enters) 
POLO: What is it, Ping-Cho? 
PING-CHO: A courier from the great Khan has arrived, Messer Marco. 
POLO: Ask him to wait, please. I'll be with him in a moment. Ping-Cho, do I have your word not to tell anyone where these keys are? 
PING-CHO: Yes, Messer Marco.

[Tent]

IAN: When did you leave Shang-Tu? 
LING-TAU: Yesterday, my lord. 
IAN: Yesterday! 
BARBARA: What? 
DOCTOR: But that's three hundred miles away, isn't it? 
LING-TAU: We change horses every league my lord. 
IAN: Every league. 
LING-TAU: That's the reason we wear these, my lord (bells around his waist) To warn the post-house of our arrival. And when we get there a fresh horse is saddled and waiting, ready for the next three miles. 
BARBARA: And you ride without rest until you reach your destination? 
LING-TAU: Yes, my lady. 
DOCTOR: I would have thought it was a physical impossibility. 
LING-TAU: Our bodies would be shaken to pieces, my lord, were it not for these. Bound tight, like this one, on my head. 
IAN: Tell me, are there many men who can ride such long distances without a break? 
LING-TAU: We are few, my lord. 
DOCTOR: Three hundred miles a days on horseback. Very few people can ride more than twenty five. 
LING-TAU: It's in our blood, my lord. We all come from the great steppes to the north. 
(Polo and Ping-Cho enter.) 
POLO: Courier! 
LING-TAU: My lord Polo? 
POLO: I am he. 
LING-TAU: The mighty Kublai Khan sends his greetings to his faithful servant. 
POLO: Thank you. 
(Ling-Tau hands over his message) 
POLO: Thank you. (reads) We must leave here at once. 
PING-CHO: Why, Messer Marco? 
POLO: Kublai Khan wishes to see me without delay. Six days hard riding from here is the city of Cheng-Ting, where we can take horses and ride on to Shang-Tu. 
PING-CHO: But our possessions, Messer Marco? 
POLO: They will have to follow on one of the many trade caravans that travels the route. 
DOCTOR: And the Tardis? 
POLO: That too must follow on, Doctor.

POLO [OC]: My only concern now is to reach the Summer Palace as quickly as possible. So within an hour, we were on the move again, and on the sixth day of our journey, the spires of Cheng-Ting could be seen on our horizon. By later afternoon, we had arrived at the way station of the White City, as Cheng-Ting is often called.

[Cheng-Ting Way Station]

WANG-LO: And how long will you honour us with your presence, my lord? 
POLO: We have to ride to Shang-Tu tomorrow. 
WANG-LO: Oh, how sad. Good day, my gracious ladies. Cheng-Ting is so delightful at this time of the year. 
DOCTOR: Well, where is it? 
POLO: What? 
DOCTOR: The Tardis. Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear. 
WANG-LO: I was advised of your pending arrival, my lord Marco, by a courier who passed this way from Shang-Tu. 
DOCTOR: Polo? 
POLO: What is it now? 
DOCTOR: I thought you said the Tardis was to be placed in the courtyard. 
WANG-LO: To what does the old lord refer? 
POLO: His caravan. 
WANG-LO: Oh, that's what it is! I had it moved. 
DOCTOR: Where to? 
WANG-LO: The stables, my lord. 
DOCTOR: The stables. 
WANG-LO: Well, I could hardly leave it in the hanging garden, my lord, now could I? 
POLO: It'll be safe enough there, Doctor. What, when does the next commerce caravan leave for Shang-Tu? 
WANG-LO: The day after tomorrow, my lord. 
POLO: Will you see that all the baggage goes with it, including that caravan? 
WANG-LO: I shall make it a personal duty, my lord Marco. And now, if you step this way, I'll escort you to your apartment. 
POLO: Thank you. 
(Wang-Lo and Polo leave) 
DOCTOR: I could hardly have it placed in the hanging garden, now could I? What does he think it is? A potting shed, or something. 
BARBARA: Well it's better there than in the courtyard, Doctor. At least it's out of sight.

[Way Station Courtyard]

(Susan and Ping-Cho are looking at the goldfish in a pond) 
SUSAN: Look at that one there. He's just like Wang-Lo, all fat, smooth and silky. And look at this one here. He's very solemn. He's just like Marco Polo. And look at this one dashing around all over the place. He's got Ian's energy. Ah, look, that one's all by itself. It's independent, like Barbara. 
PING-CHO: There's you, Susan. A wicked goldfish. 
SUSAN: Now, where are you Ping-Cho? Oh, look there. That little pretty one down there, with the wedding veil. Oh, Ping-Cho, I'm sorry. 
PING-CHO: How I miss my home in Samarkand. And your home, Susan? You've never told me about that. Is it so very far away? 
SUSAN: Yes, it is. It's as far away as a night star. 
PING-CHO: But you can reach it from Venice, can't you? 
SUSAN: No, Ping-Cho, no I can't. 
PING-CHO: And if Messer Marco does give your caravan to Kublai Khan, you will never see your home again? 
SUSAN: That's right. 
PING-CHO: I gave him my word, Susan. I promised not to tell anyone where he put the key. 
SUSAN: And I promise you that no-one will ask you.

[Stables]

(Kuiju has an eye patch and a monkey on his shoulder.) 
KUIJU: What is it, lord? 
TEGANA: A War Lord's tomb. I want it. Can you arrange to have it taken for me? 
KUIJU: Are you prepared to pay a good price? 
TEGANA: How much? 
KUIJU: We want gold, not Kublai Khan's paper money. 
TEGANA: You shall have it. 
KUIJU: In advance. 
TEGANA: One half tonight, the other half when I get the tomb. 
KUIJU: One hundred golden pieces. 
TEGANA: You shall have it. 
KUIJU: That first part, my lord. When do I receive it? 
TEGANA: Tonight. 
KUIJU: The Street of the Beggars at midnight. 
TEGANA: I shall be there. 
KUIJU: So shall I. 
(Kuiju leaves) 
TEGANA: A War Lord's tomb. More than that, a Khan's throne for Noghai.

[Marco Polo's room]

POLO: Come in. 
PING-CHO: It is dinner time, Messer Marco. 
POLO: Thank you, Ping-Cho. Oh dear, I have ink on my fingers. I will join you there. 
(Polo leaves, and Ping-Cho takes the Tardis key from his journal.)

[Way Station Courtyard]

PING-CHO: I have something to give you. 
SUSAN: What is it? 
PING-CHO: Can't you guess? 
SUSAN: No. 
PING-CHO: This. 
(She gives Susan the key) 
SUSAN: Ping-Cho! But you promised Messer Marco. 
PING-CHO: Not to tell anyone. I haven't. You don't know where I got it. 
SUSAN: But he'll be terribly angry. 
PING-CHO: But one of us will be on their way home. 
TEGANA: Good night, ladies. 
PING-CHO: Goodnight, my lord. 
SUSAN: Do you think he saw it? 
PING-CHO: No, I don't think so. Let me go up to our room before you tell the others. 
SUSAN: Yes, all right. 
PING-CHO: You will say goodbye, won't you? 
SUSAN: Of course I will. Ping-Cho, what can I say? 
(That night, when everyone else is asleep) 
IAN: Got the key, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course I have. 
IAN: Get back. there's a guard. 
DOCTOR: Dear, dear, dear, dear, haven't you any ideas? 
IAN: Yes. Yes, I have. 
(Ian pretends to be drunk, and approaches the guard.) 
IAN: Why don't you have a drink? 
(While the guard is distracted, the Doctor and Barbara sneak to the stables.) SUSAN: Ping-Cho. 
(Susan goes back inside. Ian knocks the guard out and goes to the stables. Tegana is watching. Then Susan comes back from saying goodbye to Ping-Cho.)

[Tardis]

IAN: All right, Doctor, close the doors. Wait! Where's Susan? Where is she? 
BARBARA: She must have gone to say goodbye to Ping-Cho. 
DOCTOR: What on Earth does that child think she's doing? Great Olympus! 
IAN: Don't panic. Give her a second. I knocked out the guard.

[Stables]

(Susan sneaks across the courtyard to the stables, and is almost at the Tardis when Tegana grabs her.) 
SUSAN: Grandfather!

Episode Six - Mighty Kublai Khan

[Stables]

(The Doctor, Ian and Barbara have watched Tegana grab Susan on the scanner. Ian goes out) 
IAN: Tegana. 
TEGANA: Stand still. 
IAN: Let her go. 
TEGANA: No. 
IAN: Let us all go, I appeal to you. What possible difference could it make to you? You hate Marco. 
TEGANA: Is the old man inside the caravan? 
IAN: Yes. 
TEGANA: And the other woman? 
IAN: Yes. 
TEGANA: Tell them to come out. Do as I command! 
(The Doctor and Barbara come out, and Polo arrives on the scene) 
DOCTOR: There is no need. 
POLO: What's happened? 
TEGANA: They would all have escaped if I had not caught this one. 
DOCTOR: Tell that man to take his hands off my grandchild. 
POLO: The key first, Doctor. (The Doctor hands it over) Release her, Tegana. 
(Tegana goes to stab the Doctor) 
POLO: What are you? 
TEGANA: Let me kill them, and be done with it. 
POLO: We will kill no-one. 
TEGANA: Are you mad? They will only escape again. 
POLO: I don't think so. 
(Tegana leaves and Ping-Cho arrives) 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: So long as you're safe, Susan. That's all that matters. 
POLO: Where did you get this key, Doctor? 
PING-CHO: Messer Marco 
IAN: I took it. 
POLO: You did? 
IAN: Yes, I searched your room last night. 
POLO: I see. 
IAN: What are you going to do about it? 
POLO: Tomorrow morning at dawn, we ride for Shang-Tu. When next you see your caravan, it will be at the great Khan's Summer Palace, and that will make an end of it.

POLO [OC]: A day of hard riding. We left Cheng-Ting at dawn, and by dusk had covered forty miles. As this is a densely populated area of Cathay, accommodation is not hard to find, and we have stopped for the night at an inn. Our baggage, including the Doctor's caravan, is following on with a trade caravan.

[Inn]

IAN: How's the Doctor? Got over his ride yet? 
BARBARA: No, I don't think we'll ever get him on another horse as long as he lives. Listen, we need the Tardis. You must talk to Marco. 
IAN: Talk to Marco? I've done nothing else but talk to Marco. 
BARBARA: Oh, Marco, Ian wants a word with you. I'm feeling a bit tired, so I think I'll go off to bed. 
IAN: But. Just a minute. Barbara, come here. I. Well, I. 
POLO: Well? 
IAN: Marco, you must give us back the Tardis. 
POLO: Is that what you want to talk to me about? 
IAN: Yes. 
POLO: Look, I've told you before, Ian. You know what this caravan means to me. If I give it to the Khan, he'll let me go home. 
IAN: But we want to go home too, Marco. And we can't go home without the Tardis. 
POLO: I have offered to take you back to Venice with me, and see you safely on your way home from there. 
IAN: By boat. We can't go by boat, Marco, we need the Tardis. 
POLO: Why, Ian? Why? 
IAN: All right, I'll tell you why. And I'll tell you the truth. I don't suppose you'll believe it, but still. As I told you, I come from England. Barbara as well. 
POLO: Well, I grant you England's a long way, but the journey's not impossible, Ian. The Crusaders did it. 
IAN: The Crusaders? Oh, Marco. To me, the Crusaders lived seven hundred years ago. 
POLO: What are you talking about, Ian? The Crusaders were in the Holy Land twenty five years ago. 
IAN: I come from another time. Our caravan, it not only covers distance, it can cross time. 
POLO: Travel into the past and the future? 
IAN: Yes. I know it's difficult to believe, but it's the truth. 
POLO: On my travels to Cathay, Ian, I have come to believe many things which I previously doubted. For instance, when I was a boy in Venice, they told me that in Cathay there was a stone which burned. I did not believe them, but there is such a stone. I have seen it. 
IAN: It's black, isn't it. 
POLO: Yes. 
IAN: Coal. 
POLO: In Cathay, we call it the burning stone. And if a stone burns, why not a caravan that flies? Birds fly. I have even seen fish that fly. You are asking me to believe that your caravan can defy the passage of the sun? Move not merely from one place to another, but from today into tomorrow, today into yesterday? No, Ian. That I cannot accept. 
IAN: I'm telling you the truth, Marco. 
POLO: Are you, Ian? 
IAN: I swear it. 
POLO: (holding out the Tardis key) Where did you get that? 
IAN: From your room. 
POLO: Whereabouts? Where had I hidden it? Come, Ian, surely you know where you found it? You didn't find it, did you? It was given to you, and you lied about finding it to protect Ping-Cho. Ian, don't you see it doesn't matter to me why you lied. What is important is the fact that you are capable of lying. 
IAN: So you don't believe me when I say I came from another time. 
POLO: If I did Ian, I would give you the key.

[The girls' room]

PING-CHO: Goodbye Susan.

[Inn]

(Next day) 
BARBARA: Well? 
IAN: There's no sign of her. 
BARBARA: She must have run away. But why? 
IAN: Because of that key, obviously. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Messer Marco, I didn't hear a word. 
POLO: I'm not blaming you, Susan, but we must find her and quickly. 
BARBARA: Susan, have you any idea where she'd go? Well, speak up. 
POLO: There are robbers and cut-throats on the road. 
SUSAN: I, I think she might have tried to reach home. 
POLO: Samarkand? But that's a thousand miles from here. 
TEGANA: Will we go back and find her? 
POLO: I suppose we must. 
TEGANA: The Khan ordered you to ride without delay to Shang-Tu. 
POLO: I am also responsible for Ping-Cho's safety. 
TEGANA: Well, you're the one who will face his wrath. 
IAN: Will the Khan be angry, Marco? 
POLO: Of course he will. 
IAN: Very well, then. You ride on, I'll go back and find Ping-Cho. 
POLO: Alone? 
IAN: Why not? I can remember the road we came along. She can't be far. But she is in danger, and you yourself can't go. 
POLO: What do you hope to gain by this gesture, Ian? I'm sorry. When do you want to start? 
IAN: As soon as possible. 
POLO: Go with Messer Ian and prepare a horse and provisions. 
(Ian and a bearer leave) 
BARBARA: Don't worry, Marco. He'll bring her back. You mustn't underestimate him. 
TEGANA: Very good advice, Marco.

[Cheng-Ting Way station]

WANG-LO: When the embroiderers arrive, take them straight to the lady May-Chin. My ladies, I cannot tell you how wonderful it is to. 
(He sees someone with an eyepatch waving at him.) Please forgive us. Excuse me. What do you want? 
KUIJU: The trade caravan to Shang-Tu. 
WANG-LO: Where is the other man? 
KUIJU: The old man is very ill. It's my authority to collect the 
WANG-LO: I see. I've got eyes. It's in the stables. 
KUIJU: Hey! Give that to me! 
WANG-LO: Now, about your business! 
KUIJU: The old man is a fool. 
WANG-LO: (to other travellers) Please follow me. 
(Ping-Cho approaches Kuiju as he heads for the Tardis) 
PING-CHO: My lord? 
KUIJU: Yes. 
PING-CHO: Are you with the caravan, my lord? 
KUIJU: I am, my lady. 
PING-CHO: Is your caravan bound for Samarkand? 
KUIJU: It might. Why? 
PING-CHO: I would like to journey with your caravan, unless it is going to Shang-Tu. 
KUIJU: It's possible. 
PING-CHO: I can pay. 
KUIJU: Come to think of it, we do strike inland. I'll talk to the commander of the caravan. 
PING-CHO: Shall I come with you? 
KUIJU: No, you wait here. Give me the money. (she does) Don't worry, little one. I'll arrange it. 
(Later, when Kuiju has not returned.) 
WANG-LO: You paid money? You foolish child. You have been robbed. 
PING-CHO: Robbed? What shall I do? It was all the money I had. 
WANG-LO: Haven't I seen you before? Not long since. I know. You were with Messer Marco Polo's caravan. 
PING-CHO: No, my lord, no. 
WANG-LO: What have you done, child? Run away? Oh. 
(Ian enters, and she runs to him) 
IAN: Ping-Cho, why did you do it? 
PING-CHO: The key. And I can't marry a man old enough to be my grandfather. I can't. Please don't take me back. Please. 
IAN: I must, Ping-Cho. I promised Marco. 
WANG-LO: I knew I'd seen her before, my lord. Silly child let herself be robbed. 
IAN: What? 
WANG-LO: Oh, some villain, posing as a caravan driver, took all her money on the promise of letting her travel inland with the caravan. 
IAN: Where did you meet this man? 
PING-CHO: Here. 
WANG-LO: At my way station? Impossible. 
PING-CHO: No, my lord, he was in the courtyard with you. 
WANG-LO: Oh, that one! But he was going to Shang-Tu. I have the document authorising him to take the old lord's caravan from the stables. Here it is. 
IAN: So the Tardis is on the road to Shang-Tu, eh? 
WANG-LO: Yes, my lord. 
(The caravan driver arrives) 
DRIVER: The trade caravan to Shang-Tu, excellency. There is something here for us to take. 
WANG-LO: Oh, but the other man said you were ill. 
DRIVER: What other man? 
WANG-LO: The one that took the old lord's caravan. 
DRIVER: But here is my authorisation. 
WANG-LO: But. But. 
IAN: What's the matter? 
WANG-LO: Oh, nothing, my lord. Just a slight confusion. I'm sure it can be rectified. 
IAN: It's been stolen. The Tardis has been stolen!

POLO [OC]: I hope all is well and Ian has found Ping-Cho. Our progress towards Shang-Tu continues to be excellent, and we are now beyond the Great Wall, spending the fourth night of our journey at an inn about fifty miles from the Summer Palace.

[Another Inn]

TEGANA: You trust too much, and doubt too little! Marco, let me go back after him. 
POLO: I will not agree to this. 
TEGANA: But, Marco! 
POLO: Look, it's no good. How will it appear if I stand before the Khan without you? You speak for Noghai. Silence could mean war. 
TEGANA: But 
POLO: You must be at the Summer Palace. You must be, I say. 
TEGANA: Marco, the magician's caravan. Why do you think Ian offered so readily, so, so eagerly to go back after Ping-Cho? 
POLO: What's your point? 
TEGANA: Ping-Cho could be anywhere. The chances of finding her are very small. But, Ian knows where the caravan is. He knows exactly where it is. 
POLO: You're wrong, Tegana. I think I know something of Ian's character. 
TEGANA: You can't know it all. Marco, just give me a strong horse. Now, by using your name, I can bring them both back to you. I can bring the girl to you, and the caravan will be safe. You need the caravan. Because when peace is concluded with Kublai Khan, he might very well exchange this magician's caravan for your return to Venice. 
TEGANA: Ah, all their sympathies are with Ping-Cho. They are all against this marriage. 
POLO: Then why did Ian go back to look for her? 
TEGANA: Exactly. 
(Susan and Barbara enter, laughing.) 
TEGANA: I'm glad to see that your humour is not impaired by our misfortune. 
BARBARA: What do you mean? What misfortune? 
TEGANA: Well, your friend Ian has not returned. We can only assume that he's failed to find Ping-Cho. 
BARBARA: Oh, you haven't given him enough time yet. 
SUSAN: Anyway, I'm glad. I hope he doesn't. 
TEGANA: Oh, I see. You want to see her alone, do you? Without friends? She might be kidnapped, murdered. 
SUSAN: Well, that won't happen to her. She's got money. She can buy a safe passage home. 
TEGANA: Money! Are we all sit in fear for her, and her intended husband sits in despair? 
SUSAN: Oh, even you couldn't be so cruel as to want her to marry a man four times her age. 
TEGANA: Even I? I thank you, lady. And this is your opinion too, I suppose? 
BARBARA: I suppose so. 
POLO: One moment. Are you opposed to Ping-Cho's marriage? 
BARBARA: Look, why are we 
POLO: Answer my question please. 
BARBARA: Yes I am. Completely opposed to it. 
TEGANA: How very unusual for you and Ian to disagree. 
BARBARA: It isn't unusual at all. We don't agree about everything. And in this case, we're in complete agreement. All of us. 
POLO: This marriage has the Khan's blessing. Am I to understand that you oppose it? Am I? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
POLO: All four of you? 
BARBARA: Yes, all four of us. 
POLO: Take your horse, Tegana. You have my leave to go. Use my name or such powers as you will, but bring them both to the Summer Palace! 
TEGANA: I shall do so. 
SUSAN: Why did you do that? 
POLO: To make certain. 
SUSAN: Certain of what? 
POLO: That Ian has gone back to look for Ping-Cho, and not your caravan.

[Way Station Courtyard]

IAN: I've got to find it. I've got to. But where? 
PING-CHO: Perhaps it is still here. 
IAN: No, no, Ping-Cho. We should have heard. No, it's been taken, all right. Is must have been taken by some old road. Some route that's no longer used. 
PING-CHO: The Karakorum road. 
IAN: Karakorum? But Karakorum's the capital of the Mongol empire. 
PING-CHO: Not any more. Not since the Khan built his palace at Peking. 
IAN: Yes, but it'll still be an important place. I mean, caravans'll still go there. 
PING-CHO: Karakorum was not a city of stone. It was just a collection of tents. When the Khan moved, the Mongols dispersed. 
IAN: So the road isn't used any more? 
PING-CHO: Never. 
IAN: Then, that'll be the answer. 
PING-CHO: Why would someone take the Tardis to Karakorum? 
IAN: I don't know, Ping-Cho. But until I find it, we shall never leave Kublai Khan's Cathay.

[Summer Palace Throne room]

VIZIER: The Great War Lord and Master of the World, mighty Kublai Khan, is pleased to grant you an audience. 
POLO: We wait the Great Khan's pleasure. 
DOCTOR: It's all Chinese. Very interesting. It's odd that a Mongol should choose Chinese architecture, isn't it? 
SUSAN: Did you see those beautiful pavilions? 
BARBARA: Yes. Weren't they magnificent? 
POLO: Some of them are made of solid gold. 
SUSAN: Are they? 
DOCTOR: What size are the grounds? 
POLO: Oh, they're enormous. They have to be to accommodate the Khan's two great passions, hunting and falconry. Do you know, in his stables he has ten thousand white stallions? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, one's enough for me, young man. Red, white or blue. VIZIER: When great Kublai Khan appears, you will make your obeisance to him. so that he may look kindly upon you, and spare your worthless lives. 
DOCTOR: Pray then, what am I supposed to do, sir? 
VIZIER: Kow-tow. Kneel upon the ground and touch your forehead upon the floor three times. 
DOCTOR: I shall do no such thing! 
VIZIER: Kublai Khan is the mightiest man the world has ever seen. Not to pay him homage will cost you your head. 
DOCTOR: Well, if it breaks my back, then he can take all of me. So why waste time on small items? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, please. 
DOCTOR: Oh, do be quiet child. I'm not going to make a spectacle of 
(a gong sounds) 
VIZIER: Silence! Those who dare to come before the sight of the great Kublai Khan, kow-tow. Kow-tow before the War Lord of War Lords. Mighty and fearful in his strength. Kow-tow before the Ruler of Asia, India, Cathay and other territories. Kow-tow before the Master of the World. 
(Everyone kneels down except the Doctor) 
SUSAN: Grandfather, come on, get down. 
VIZIER: Kow-tow! Kow-tow! 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. I'll manage it. 
VIZIER: Kow-tow! 
KHAN: Fools! 
(A small wizened old man enters, shuffling along. The Doctor is still struggling to kneel. Both are groaning.) 
KHAN: Do you mock our afflictions? 
DOCTOR: It's my back. 
KHAN: What ails it? 
DOCTOR: It's broken! 
VIZIER: Don't be impertinent! 
DOCTOR: I am not being impertinent, sir. I'm far from unwell. 
VIZIER: How dare you speak out! 
KHAN: This gout will be the end of us. 
(The Khan sits on his throne) 
KHAN: Marco, get up. 
POLO: My lord. 
KHAN: Get up, all of you. These gracious ladies also accompany you. Marco? 
POLO: They do, my lord. 
KHAN: We bid you welcome to our court, ladies. What's the matter with him? 
POLO: Oh, five days hard riding on horseback, my lord. The Doctor's not accustomed to it. 
KHAN: Doctor? Oh, is he? Are you, perchance, a physician? 
DOCTOR: I am not a doctor of medicine, sire, otherwise I should be able to cure these pains. 
KHAN: Oh, what a pity. Where is the War Lord Tegana? 
POLO: Riding for Shang-Tu, my lord, with the lady Ping-Cho and a companion of theirs. 
KHAN: Noghai's army's encamped at Karakorum. 
POLO: But that's impossible, my lord. When Tegana joined my caravan, Noghai's army was only forty miles north of Samarkand. 
KHAN: Then it stands hundred miles from Shang-Tu. We are very anxious to hear Tegana's explanation of his master's conduct. 
POLO: I can understand my lord's concern, and it is my fault that he is not here. 
KHAN: We are on our guard against treachery. Our patrols watch the Karakorum road, and tomorrow we'll ride for Peking. 
SUSAN: Must we go too? 
VIZIER: Silence. Speak only when you are addressed. 
KHAN: Tut, tut, tut. What was it you said? 
SUSAN: Well, I wondered if we might wait for Ping-Cho, my lord. 
KHAN: No, I think it is better that you ride with us. 
DOCTOR: Oh, not another horse. 
KHAN: You spoke? 
DOCTOR: I said I don't think I could get on another horse. 
KHAN: Then walk! 
DOCTOR: In my present condition, sir? And what about that lump of yours, hmmm? 
VIZIER: The Master of the World has a carriage of state. 
DOCTOR: Well, he's lucky. He won't be jogged about. 
KHAN: Tomorrow you ride in state with us. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
KHAN: (in pain) Find suitable accommodation for our guests. 
VIZIER: As my lord commands. 
KHAN: Marco. 
POLO: My lord? 
KHAN: When Tegana arrives, bring him directly to us. 
POLO: Very good, my lord. 
KHAN: We have healing waters here which relieve my gout. Come, let us observe their effects upon your aches and pains. 
DOCTOR: Very well, very well. 
KHAN: Oh, what a trial old age is. 
DOCTOR: It must be borne with dignity, sir. 
KHAN: Oh, dignity. Yes, of course. Now, take my arm, friend. 
(The two old men leave together, grumbling) 
SUSAN: That's the mighty Kublai Khan. 
POLO: Laugh if you will, Susan, but he is the greatest administrator the world has ever seen. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Messer Marco. 
BARBARA: Marco, we can't leave here tomorrow. Not without Ian and Ping-Cho. 
POLO: I'm afraid we have no choice, Barbara. Don't worry, Tegana will bring them to Peking. 
BARBARA: Will he?

[Karakorum Road]

(Kuiju is resting. Ian and Ping-Cho watch from the shrubs) 
PING-CHO: That's him, Messer Ian. That's the man who robbed me. 
IAN: Yes. It looks as though he's waiting for something. Waiting for somebody. That's why he's brought the Tardis here. Take cover. Get down, Ping-Cho. 
(Kuiju and Ian confront each other) 
KUIJU: Who are you? What do you want? Speak! 
PING-CHO: Where's my money? 
(Ian disarms Kuiju and threatens him with his own knife) 
IAN: Where is it? Where's the young girl's money? 
KUIJU: In my pouch, lord. 
IAN: Get it, Ping-Cho. You're a greedy man, aren't you? And you brought the old lord's caravan here, I suppose, to get money? Well, was it? 
KUIJU: Yes, lord! 
IAN: And who's going to give you that money? Tell me! Tell me! 
KUIJU: The War Lord Tegana. 
IAN: Tegana. 
(Tegana appears with his sword.) 
IAN: I'll kill him. 
TEGANA: Do so. He is of no importance. Come. Come. 
(The two men square up to fight)

Episode Seven - Assassin at Peking

[Karakorum Road]

IAN: Will the mighty War Lord kill a child as well? 
TEGANA: If in my way, as you are. 
IAN: And Kublai Khan? Is he in your way too? 
TEGANA: I serve Noghai. And with that, (the Tardis) he'll rule the world. 
IAN: Only the Doctor can make that work. 
TEGANA: Noghai's sorcerers will reveal its secrets. Now, enough of this game. 
LING-TAU: Disarm them! 
(His soldier takes their weapons. Kuiju makes a run for it) 
LING-TAU: Stop him! 
(A scream.) 
LING-TAU: You fool. I did not command his death. 
TEGANA: My name is Tegana, the War Lord. Get rid of these men 
LING-TAU: I am Ling-Tau, captain and courier in the great Khan's service. 
TEGANA: They were trying to steal the Khan's property. 
IAN: That's not true. 
LING-TAU: I remember both of you. You were with Messer Marco Polo's caravan. 
PING-CHO: He is the thief. We caught him with that. 
LING-TAU: Pardon me, my lady. I have not the authority to judge in this dispute. It's a matter for the great Khan. 
TEGANA: Then take us to Shang-Tu. 
LING-TAU: The great Khan has left the Summer Palace at Shang-Tu, my lord. You will see him in Peking.

[Peking Throne room]

(The Doctor and the Khan are playing backgammon.) 
DOCTOR: My game. 
KHAN: You're too good for us at backgammon. Tea? 
DOCTOR: Please. 
KHAN: Oh, that is our reckoning? 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes it is, sire, yes. 
KHAN: What do we owe? 
DOCTOR: Er, thirty-five elephants with ceremonial bridles, trappings, brocades and pavilions. Four thousand white stallions, and twenty-five tigers. 
KHAN: That's not too bad, so far. 
DOCTOR: And the sacred tooth of Buddha which Polo brought over from India. 
KHAN: Oh, that? What else? What more? 
DOCTOR: I'm very much afraid all the commerce from Burma for one year, sire. 
(A trumpet sounds) 
KHAN: Oh, the Empress. Hide it, hide it! 
EMPRESS: Winning, my love? 
KHAN: One wins, one loses, my dear. 
DOCTOR: The great Khan is far too modest, my lady. 
EMPRESS: You're not wagering are you? You know how it affects your gout. 
(The Empress leaves) 
DOCTOR: How charming. 
KHAN: Charming indeed, and yet there are moments, old friend, when we wish our character were more like that of our lamented grandfather, Genghis. Did you hear of him? 
DOCTOR: Genghis Khan? No, I didn't meet him, but I have heard of him. Yes. 
KHAN: Oh, he was the warrior of the family. Nothing frightened him. We are the clan of the statistician and the administrator. Oh, she will be furious with me when she finds out what I have lost. 
DOCTOR: Oh, then you've lost nothing, sire. 
KHAN: No, no, no. These are bets of honour. 
DOCTOR: Well, one more game then, and if you win, you can take it all back again. 
KHAN: And if you win? 
DOCTOR: Well, er, Marco Polo has taken away my caravan and given it to you, sire. If I win, perhaps I could have my caravan back again? 
KHAN: No, not that. No, take something else. The Island of Sumatra. We can't give you Marco's gift. We haven't even seen it yet. 
DOCTOR: But none of this is important to me, sire. You see, win or lose, you can have it all back again. But if I win, my ship, Tardis, comes back to me, hmm? 
KHAN: Let's play at that stake. (a knock at the door) Oh, go away! 
POLO [OC]: It's Marco Polo, my Lord. 
KHAN: Oh, Marco Polo. Well, would you object to one interruption? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. 
KHAN: Enter. 
(Polo enters and kow-tows) 
KHAN: We are too busy for that, Marco. Be brief, please. Be brief. 
POLO: As my lord commands. The War Lord Tegana has arrived in Peking. When he reaches the palace, shall I bring him directly to you? 
KHAN: No. No, we'll grant him an audience as soon as possible. Oh, we want to tell you something, Marco. We owe half of Asia to our friend at backgammon. 
POLO: It is unusual for you to lose, my Lord. 
KHAN: Oh, he is a fortunate one. But our friend here made a truly royal gesture which we have accepted, although it might upset you. 
POLO: Why should it do that? 
KHAN: That's our last game. Our losses against your gift to me. 
POLO: The caravan? 
DOCTOR: Yes, Marco. We're playing for the Tardis. 
POLO: But my Lord 
KHAN: Well? 
POLO: Nothing, my Lord. I will leave you to your game. 
DOCTOR: My throw. 
KHAN: But. Yes, your throw.

[Peking Palace Cloister]

POLO: You will not believe this, but I swear it's true. They're playing backgammon for your caravan. 
BARBARA + SUSAN: What? 
POLO: If the Doctor wins, he has won back Tardis. 
BARBARA: And if he loses? 
POLO: He's lost everything. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather will win. I hope. 
POLO: The sly old fox. The Khan hasn't even seen it yet, and he's taking it away from me. 
BARBARA: Then this will solve everything. You've made your gesture and given the Tardis to the Khan, so he should let you go home. And with any luck, we can go home too. So we'll all have what we want.
SUSAN: Yes, all except Ping-Cho. 
POLO: Yes, I'm afraid there's nothing we can do about her, Susan. Her future husband is already in Peking. 
SUSAN: What in the palace? 
POLO: Yes, there is to be a banquet tonight in his honour, at which six thousand guests will attend. 
SUSAN: Six thousand! 
POLO: He's a very important man. 
BARBARA: He must be. When is the wedding? 
POLO: Tomorrow morning. 
SUSAN: Poor Ping-Cho. 
LING-TAU: My lord, Polo. 
POLO: Yes? Oh, you're the courier that brought me the message from Shang-Tu, aren't you? 
LING-TAU: I am my Lord. 
POLO: It's a pleasure to see you again. 
LING-TAU: No, my Lord, I fear not. 
POLO: Why? What is wrong? 
LING-TAU: Two members of your party, the lord known as Ian, and the lady Ping-Cho, are being held under guard. 
POLO: Why? 
LING-TAU: They're accused of stealing the Khan's property. 
BARBARA: The Tardis? 
POLO: Well, who accuses them? 
BARBARA: Tegana. 
LING-TAU: Yes, my lady. 
BARBARA: That man is 
SUSAN: Wait! But Grandfather's going to win back the Tardis, so no charges can be brought. 
POLO: Susan, you don't take your prize until you win the game. 
(The Doctor enters.) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! Grandfather, you've not lost? 
DOCTOR: He gave me this. A consolation prize. A piece of his paper currency. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather!

[Palace room]

POLO: You have told me all? 
IAN: Everything from the moment I found Ping-Cho. 
POLO: And you distinctly heard Tegana say that the Khan was his enemy? 
IAN: Yes, Tegana said I serve Noghai, and he will conquer the world. Ping-Cho heard it as well. 
PING-CHO: Distinctly, Messer Marco. 
POLO: Ling-Tau, did you hear this? 
LING-TAU: No, my lord. I did not. 
POLO: That's a pity. 
IAN: You mean our word isn't strong enough against Tegana's? 
PING-CHO: There are two of us, Messer Marco. 
POLO: No, Ping-Cho. Ian must stand trial alone. 
PING-CHO: Why? 
POLO: Your husband-to-be has asked the Khan to excuse you. He promises to take you away from Peking as soon as the marriage ceremony is over. 
PING-CHO: And the Khan has agreed? 
POLO: You are to be married tomorrow morning.

[Peking Throne room]

(Tegana and the Khan are inspecting the Tardis) 
KHAN: So this is our flying caravan. Thank you for recovering it for us, Lord Tegana. 
TEGANA: Good fortune gave me the opportunity of serving the great Khan. 
KHAN: The lady Ping-Cho has been excused of complicity in the theft. 
TEGANA: The Khan shows much wisdom and compassion. What crimes she committed were done under the influence of others. 
KHAN: Crimes? Who else was there? 
TEGANA: The old magician, my lord, tried several times to regain the caravan. 
KHAN: Were there other attempts to steal it? Marco did not mention them to us. 
TEGANA: Is that not natural, my lord, that he would wish to guard them? 
KHAN: You have served us well. 
TEGANA: In dealings with Mongols like ourselves, yes, my lord. But he is as they are. And does not one's loyalty first lie with one's own kind? 
KHAN: Your point is taken, Lord Tegana. 
(Polo enters.) 
KHAN: Marco, thank you for our gift. 
POLO: I am the Khan's obedient servant. 
KHAN: We are glad to know. But then, there were other attempts to steal the caravan? Why did you not invoke our laws? 
POLO: To have done so would have been unjust, my lord. Our laws are alien to them. 
KHAN: They were on our soil, therefore, subject to our laws. Why did you not invoke them? 
POLO: The caravan belonged to them, my lord. 
TEGANA: My lord, I can hold my peace no longer. Forgive me. How can that be? You claimed it in the Khan's name? 
POLO: It was wrong of me to do so. 
TEGANA: You wear the Khan's gold seal. It gives you your authority to take what you will. 
POLO: When the cause is just. This was not. 
KHAN: What was it then? 
POLO: Selfish. 
KHAN: What did you hope to gain? 
TEGANA: He wanted to force you to let him return to Venice. 
KHAN: You wanted to bribe us, Marco? 
POLO: I'd hoped you would allow me to return home, my lord. 
KHAN: Your gift has failed. It is ours because we won the right to keep it in a game of chance. Where is the key? 
POLO: In my quarters, my lord. 
KHAN: Bring it to us after the banquet, and then we'll examine our prize. 
POLO: My lord, you do me a great wrong. 
KHAN: We are distressed and angered by your conduct, Marco. Please think about it. You'll also attend us after the banquet, Lord Tegana. We'll discuss the terms of our settlement with Noghai. But we be on guard against you. 
TEGANA: What have I that the Khan should fear? 
KHAN: The power of persuasion.

[Peking Throne room - later that evening]

KHAN: Dead! And in the middle of the feast. How shall we tell her? Terrible! Horrible! Terrible and horrible! Horrible and terrible! 
(Polo, Ping-Cho and Ling-Tau enter) 
KHAN: Oh, here you are, my child. Come, we have something to tell you. A tragedy has occurred at the table tonight. 
PING-CHO: Tragedy, my lord? 
KHAN: Your beloved husband-to-be, so anxious to be worthy of your love, drank a potion of quicksilver and sulphur, the elixir of life and eternal youth, and expired. 
EMPRESS: Come into my arms, child. Let me share your grief. 
KHAN: You're overdoing it, my dear, the child is dry-eyed. 
EMPRESS: Oh, ungrateful wretch! Do you not weep for your lost love? 
PING-CHO: My lady, I grieve an old man's death as all would do. But how can I weep for a love I have never known? 
KHAN: Tell us, Ping-Cho. Do you wish to return to your home in Samarkand? Or would you like to stay a while in our Court and brighten all our days? 
PING-CHO: If I may, my lord, I would like to stay. 
KHAN: So be it. Wait, Marco. Tell us, my child, your opinion of the travellers from a distant land? 
PING-CHO: They are my friends, my lord. As they will always be. 
KHAN: Thank you, Ping-Cho. Wait, Marco. Let that young officer escort lady Ping-Cho to her quarters. (Ping-Cho and Ling-Tau leave) 
KHAN: She is forthright and honest. We trust her, as we once did you. Our mind dwells upon your conduct, Marco, and we've decided that you have to prove yourself worthy of our trust. If you fail this to do, we take from you our patronage, banish you from our Court, and let your enemies fall upon you. You have the key of the caravan? 
POLO: Yes, my lord, but you would be well advised to have the Doctor with you when you open it. 
KHAN: Fetch him, Marco, fetch him. No, wait. Not until our audience with the Lord Tegana is concluded.

[Outside the Throne room]

POLO: I underestimated you, Tegana. 
TEGANA: No, you overestimated yourself.

[Palace room]

SUSAN: The Khan won't even see us. 
DOCTOR: What's the point. We've tried everything. 
BARBARA: What's Tegana's game? 
IAN: Well, we can be quite clear about that. Tegana said, I serve Noghai and he will conquer the world with the help of the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: I always knew Tegana was a two-faced villain. 
SUSAN: Yes, well, that doesn't help Ian, does it? He's got to take the blame. 
BARBARA: I wish I could remember what it was the Khan said that upset Marco so much. 
IAN: What's it matter now? 
BARBARA: Well, it was something about Noghai and Tegana. 
SUSAN: I'm sure Tegana was behind that bandit raid. But why? 
DOCTOR: It wasn't just my ship then. Whatever double-game Tegana is playing, he must have decided upon a long time before we appeared on the scene. 
BARBARA: I remember! 
DOCTOR: Hmmm? 
BARBARA: The Khan was furious because Noghai had moved his armies from Samarkand to Karakorum. 
DOCTOR: And that's why he delayed Marco Polo's caravan. To give Noghai more time to move his armies nearer Peking. 
IAN: Yes, that makes sense. Even so, why should Kublai Khan fear Noghai? He has an enormous army, and he's already defeated him once, surely. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but what you have to take into account where battles are concerned, dear boy, are its leaders. Kill the leader, and where are you? What happens? The whole army dissipates itself into chaos and utter confusion. It's happened throughout your history time and time again! 
SUSAN: Grandfather, do you mean to say Tegana's going to assassinate the Khan? 
DOCTOR: Exactly, and what could be a better answer then to disorganise everything here. It gives Noghai the perfect answer to overrun the country. 
BARBARA: But then, we must get to the Khan before Tegana kills him, otherwise. 
IAN: I've had it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we've all had it. 
SUSAN: Look, how are we going to get Ian past the guard? 
(Ian goes to the door and mimes the plan) 
DOCTOR: Guard! Open the door. 
(The guard enters. The Doctor trips him with his stick. Everybody runs for it.)

[Corridor]

SUSAN: Which way? 
IAN: Let's try down here. (They run on until they meet Polo and a guard) 
IAN: Marco. 
POLO: Ian, what are you doing, you fool? 
IAN: Marco, you must stop Tegana! He's going to kill the Khan! 
POLO: Seize him! 
IAN: Marco, listen to me, Tegana 
POLO: Take him back to his cell, and keep him under close surveillance. 
SUSAN: But Messer Marco, you must 
LING-TAU: My lord! 
POLO: What is it? 
LING-TAU: A messenger has just arrived. Noghai's army is marching on Peking. 
POLO: Tegana's in the throne room with the Khan now. 
DOCTOR: Well, then, look, somebody must protect him. 
POLO: Hold that, Doctor, and stay here, all of you. 
(Polo gives a parchment to the Doctor and runs off)

[Peking Throne room]

TEGANA: Your terms of peace are hard, my lord. 
KHAN: Tegana, those who rise against us must be humbled. 
TEGANA: They shall be honoured. I promised Noghai to make an end of this matter. 
(Tegana draws his sword, and kills the Vizier by mistake.) 
POLO: Tegana! 
(Polo and Tegana have a sword fight in front of a growing crowd. Polo wins. Ling-Tau and warriors enter to take charge of Tegana. Then the Doctor and co. arrive) 
KHAN: We warned you, Tegana, those who rise against us will be humbled. You must die. 
(Tegana grabs a sword and kills himself.) 
POLO: Take him away. Doctor, take the keys quickly. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
POLO: Now go. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
POLO: Go. 
DOCTOR: Come along. 
PING-CHO: Susan, goodbye. 
SUSAN: Bye, Ping-Cho. 
PING-CHO: Your caravan, quickly. 
SUSAN: Goodbye! 
(The Tardis dematerialises) 
POLO: I'm sorry, my lord. I had to give them back their flying caravan. 
KHAN: If you hadn't, the old man would have won it at backgammon. And it is true. A flying caravan. There's something for you to tell your friends in Venice. 
POLO: No, my lord. They would not believe half the things that I have seen in Cathay. But what is the truth? I wonder where they are now? The past or the future?

[Tardis]

(The Tardis lands on an island dominated by a huge pyramid. Ian is still wearing a silk Chinese jacket instead of his cardigan) 
IAN: Any radiation, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: No, nothing to speak of. The counter's hardly reading anything. Shall we take a look? 
BARBARA: Pity you don't have colour television. 
DOCTOR: Oh, but I have. 
BARBARA: Where is it, then? 
DOCTOR: Well, at the moment it's temporarily hors de combat. 
(They look at the scanner) 
BARBARA: Oh, look. That's the sea, isn't it? 
SUSAN: Yes, and sand. Grandfather, I wonder where we are? 
IAN: One thing's sure. We're not at Southend. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, can we go and have a look? Can we? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I don't think, I don't see why not. There's nothing, no danger about. Come on. Let's go and have a look. 
IAN: No. 
DOCTOR: What? 
IAN: Well, I thought when you switched the scanner on, I thought I saw something move up there. Oh, probably just a shadow. 
DOCTOR: Well, let's go outside and have a look.

[Island]

(Four torpedo-like things glide up to the beach. On closer inspection, they look like metal fish) 
SUSAN: It is the sea. It's beautiful. 
IAN: Yes, absolutely calm. Not even a ripple. 
BARBARA: It isn't frozen, is it? 
DOCTOR: No, impossible in this temperature. Besides, it's too warm. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, do you think it's safe to go for a swim? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no. Not at the moment, child. However inviting that water looks, we don't know what sort of creatures might be lurking beneath its surface. 
(They explore the rocks, and don't see the frogman with flippers following them) 
BARBARA: It's so quiet. 
IAN: Yes, it is. No birds or anything. 
BARBARA: There's nothing growing. 
DOCTOR: I say, what do you make of this, Chesterton? Fascinating. 
IAN: It's glass. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it is, isn't it. Yes. Glass instead of sand, eh? Intriguing, intriguing, my boy. 
IAN: Do you think the sand turned into glass? 
DOCTOR: Or was the glass put here deliberately, and if so, why, hmm? 
SUSAN: There's a lovely pool over here. If I can't swim, at least I can paddle. 
BARBARA: (slipping and bumping into her, making her drop a shoe into the pool) Oh, sorry, Susan. 
SUSAN: Never mind. I'll get it. You going to come in? 
BARBARA: No. 
IAN: No, Susan, don't! 
(He's spotted the shoe dissolving in the water) 
BARBARA: Ian, what is it? 
IAN: Must be some sort of acid. 
BARBARA: But it was so fast. It just seemed to dissolve. 
SUSAN: And I was going to paddle in it. 
BARBARA: It's all right, Susan. It's all right. Look, you've got some more shoes back at the ship, haven't you? Well, go and put them on. We'll wait here for you. 
IAN: Here, you'd better take my boots. 
SUSAN: I can't put those on. They're much too big for me. 
BARBARA: Now, come on. It's better than cutting your feet open on this glass. 
SUSAN: All right. 
IAN: There. 
SUSAN: I'm going to fill them up with sand anyway. 
IAN: All right? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: They'll give you lovely corns, those will. 
BARBARA: Seven league boots, hey? 
(Susan clumps off) 
BARBARA: Ian. This is a tidal pool. 
IAN: Yes, I agree. Rather ties up with the glass beach, doesn't it. 
BARBARA: Then everything out there is acid too. A sea of acid. 
(The frogman tries to get into the Tardis, then hides as Susan returns) 
DOCTOR: Sea of acid. Astonishing. You know, in all my travels I've never come across anything like this before. However, Susan wasn't harmed, anyway. 
BARBARA: She was a bit frightened of losing her shoes, but she's gone back to the ship for another pair. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and if you'd had your shoes on, my boy, you could have lent her hers. You mustn't get sloppy in your habits, you know. Good gracious. 
(He's seen the metal fish on the beach) 
BARBARA: It looks like a glass torpedo. 
IAN: Or a one man submarine. It's certainly designed for going under the water. 
DOCTOR: Under acid, more likely. 
IAN: Yes. I don't know if it's occurred to you, Doctor, but this means this place is inhabited. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, it has occurred to me. Let's see what it is. Help me get this top off. 
BARBARA: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Yes? 
BARBARA: There's another one over here, and there's something inside it. 
(Susan comes out of the Tardis in a fresh pair of pumps, and carrying Ian's boots, when she notices the imprint of a frogman's flipper in the sand.) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
(She goes to follow the trail) 
DOCTOR: See that crack along there? It's where the acid must have seeped in. 
IAN: That's got it. 
(The sub opens) 
IAN: Now, let's have a look at you. 
DOCTOR: Use that, use that. 
IAN: Hmm? Oh, all right. (uses the Doctor's walking stick to pull out a frogman's suit) 
BARBARA: It's a protective suit! 
DOCTOR: Yes, and whatever it was wore it, is similar to a human being, hmm? 
IAN: Yes, but how did it get out? Seems to be perfectly intact. 
BARBARA: I don't think it did get out. There's a tear in the material here. 
IAN: You mean the acid got in. Poor devil. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I think we ought to go back to the ship and try and find Susan. She should have caught up with us by now. Come along. 
IAN: Look at that fantastic building! (the pyramid) 
DOCTOR: Good! Now perhaps we might learn who it is that uses these strange ships. Anyway, lets get back to the ship and find Susan. Later, perhaps, a little visiting, I think. 
IAN: Yes. 
(Susan has already made it to the pyramid, and the frogman is waiting around the corner with a raised knife. Meanwhile, at the Tardis) 
BARBARA: She isn't inside anywhere. 
DOCTOR: Oh, wretched child. Now where's she got to, I wonder? 
BARBARA: Ian, there are your boots. And there are Susan's footprints in the sand here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, sand here and glass on the beach. I'm beginning to think that sea of acid is a defence barrier. 
IAN: Except against glass submarines, eh, Doctor? 
BARBARA: What you mean is that all visitors are unwelcome. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it would seem so. 
IAN: We must find Susan. She may have gone to have a look at that building. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes.

[Outside the building]

(The slab of wall behind the would-be assassin suddenly opens and he falls inside the building just before Susan rounds the corner)
IAN: Oh, it's enormous!
BARBARA: Look at the joins in the blocks, Ian. 
IAN: Yes, no mortar. Must have been built with tremendous accuracy. 
BARBARA: Yes, the Egyptians did the same thing. So did the Indians of Central and Southern America. 
IAN: A precise distribution of weight, that's the key, isn't it? 
BARBARA: Yes. Marvellous, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, now before you two get carried away, I think we'd better go and find Susan, hmm?
BARBARA: Yes, you're quite right. 
IAN: Well, for a start, let's make a circuit of this place. 
DOCTOR: Excellent. Now I suggest we go different ways and meet back at the furthermost point, which is probably round the corner there somewhere. Off you go, off you go now. 
(Susan leans against the wall, it opens under her weight and she screams as she falls in) 
BARBARA: Did you hear that? 
IAN: Yes, it was Susan. Come on! 
(The Doctor also gets pulled inside just before Barbara and Ian arrive) 
BARBARA: I could have sworn I heard her. 
IAN: We certainly heard something. Can't be sure it was Susan, of course. 
BARBARA: Well, I am sure. 
IAN: Yes, but where's the Doctor? Even if he'd been travelling at half speed, he should have reached that far corner by now.

[Corridor]

(Inside the building, Susan is walking slowly down a corridor towards where the frogman is hiding, when a person in a robe passes behind her. She turns, they ignore her, and she continues backwards until the frogman grabs her. She screams, he lets go and falls to the floor with his own knife in his back. The robed figure returns)

[Outside the building]

BARBARA: Well, Ian, there's only one thing to do. That's another circuit of the walls. 
IAN [OC]: I've just been all around and I couldn't find a door anywhere. 
BARBARA: Well, I suppose there's every chance she didn't come this way. She's probably back at the ship waiting for us. I said, she's probably back at the ship waiting for us. Ian? Ian? Ian! 
(Finally, she leans against the wall too and gets taken inside where we can see a robed figure)

[Corridor]

(Ian has found the dead frogman. Elsewhere, Barbara and the Doctor have found Susan) 
SUSAN: Dreadful. The wall just seemed to swallow me up, and then this man grabbed me and the next thing I knew, he fell dead in front of me. 
BARBARA: Man? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. From what Susan has described, he was wearing a suit similar to the one we found on the beach. 
BARBARA: Are these the ones that live here? 
DOCTOR: No, no. The man wearing the monk's habit lives in this building. 
BARBARA: So the men from the glass submarines are intruders, like us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, with one difference, which is puzzling but revealing. They died, and we're only prisoners. 
BARBARA: Well maybe we're to be killed, too. 
DOCTOR: I shouldn't worry too much about that. That young schoolmaster friend of yours is very resourceful. Whilst he's free, our chance of rescue is still good. 
BARBARA: Well, that's just it, Doctor. He isn't free. He was captured before I was. 
(Ian comes to the rescue of a 'monk' being attacked by another frogman. The frogman falls through another movable wall panel and down a long way into water, or rather, acid) 
ARBITAN: Why do you protect me? 
IAN: Are you a prisoner here? 
ARBITAN: In a way. I can never leave here. In a way, this is my home. 
IAN: Where are my friends? 
ARBITAN: Safe. I saw your machine materialise. Until I knew otherwise I had to treat you as potential enemies. The Voord were trying to penetrate the walls. 
IAN: The Voord? 
ARBITAN: The man you just saved me from was a Voord. It's many years since their last assault, but now they've returned and if they continue to come they're bound to succeed eventually. 
IAN: I should have thought this place was impregnable. How many of you defend it? 
ARBITAN: How many? I am alone. Oh, please, let us release your companions and then I'll try to explain. 
IAN: Good idea. 
(Their departure is watched by another frogman)

[Control room]

DOCTOR: Yes, yes. I want to know more about this planet. Your technology, you say, reached its peak over two thousand years ago? 
ARBITAN: Yes, and all our knowledge culminated in the manufacture of this. At the time, it was called the Conscience of Marinus. Marinus, that is the name of our planet. At first, this machine was simply a judge and jury that was never wrong, and unfair. And then we added to it, improved on it, made it more and more sophisticated so that finally it became possible to radiate its power and influence the minds of men throughout the planet. They no longer had to decide what was wrong or right. The machine decided for them. 
DOCTOR: I see. And in that case it was possible to eliminate evil from the minds of men for all time. 
ARBITAN: That is exactly what happened. Marinus was unique in the universe. Robbery, fear, hate, violence were unknown among us. Yes, yes, for seven centuries we prospered, and then a man named Yartek found a means of overcoming the power of the machine. He and his followers, the Voords, were able to rob, exploit, kill, cheat. Our people could not resist because violence is alien to them. 
(A Voord is eavesdropping on all this) 
IAN: But surely by this time this machine had become a great danger to you? If it had fallen into the hands of the Voords, they could have controlled Marinus. Why didn't you destroy it? 
ARBITAN: We always hoped to find a way of modifying it and making it again irresistible. So instead of destroying it, we removed the five key microcircuits. 
IAN: What did you do with them? 
ARBITAN: One of them, I kept. There it is. (points up) The other four were taken and put in places of safety all over Marinus. Only I know where they are, and now the time has come when they must be recovered. 
BARBARA: Well why don't you simply make new keys? 
ARBITAN: The keys are very simple, but the microcircuits inside are very complicated. A permutation of numbers and signals that would take a thousand years to unravel. And besides, since the keys were hidden, I have worked on this machine and modified it, so that when they're replaced 
DOCTOR: When they're replaced it would mean that your machine is irresistible and you can overcome and control the Voords again. 
ARBITAN: Yes. 
IAN: Surely there must be someone you can send for these keys? 
ARBITAN: Through the years all my friends, all my followers, have gone. They have never returned. Last year I sent my daughter. She has not come back. All I have now to comfort me is the distant echo of her voice, the imagined sound of her footsteps. But now your coming's brought new hope. Oh yes, yes, you must find the keys for me.

[Outside the Tardis]

BARBARA: Ian, wait a minute. The Doctor's miles behind. I don't know about you, but I felt terrible leaving that old man. We seem to be his last hope. 
IAN: Yes, I wish there had been something we could have done for him. 
SUSAN: Oh, come on, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: I'm coming, child. Don't rush, I'm coming. Well, don't just stand there, come along, come along. Keeping me waiting. 
(He tries to put the key in the Tardis lock, but something is forming a barrier a couple of inches away from it) 
DOCTOR: What? 
BARBARA: What is it? 
IAN: Well, it's some sort of invisible barrier. What do you make of it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. I don't know. There's no substance here. Have a look round the side, child. Go along. 
BARBARA: It's like an invisible wall. 
DOCTOR: Is it a circular barrier? 
SUSAN: Goes all the way round. Can't see a cause to it. 
DOCTOR: No, of course, there wouldn't be. The molecules would be at their weakest. Ha! It's fascinating, Chesterton. Yes, I've got it, I've got it. You know, I think a force barrier has been put up around the ship. 
ARBITAN [OC]: I am sorry you forced me to keep you from your ship, but your refusal to help me left me no alternative. 
IAN: Arbitan, where are you? 
ARBITAN [OC]: That is not important. If you help me find the keys of Marinus, I will let you have access to your machine when you have delivered all the keys to me. If not, you will stay on the island without food or water. The choice is yours. 
IAN: Choice? What choice?

[Control room]

(They are looking at a map) 
IAN: Well, at least we know the rough location of the keys. Now all we have to do is get them. 
ARBITAN: As soon as you have started your voyage, I will release the forcefield. Your ship will be available to you when you return. 
BARBARA: If we return. 
DOCTOR: I know we have no choice, but this whole affair is outrageous. Blackmail, pure and simply blackmail. 
IAN: Oh, Doctor, don't lets go through all that again. Let's just get on with the job. 
ARBITAN: Perhaps you will bring me news of my daughter. I miss her. Yes, I miss her. 
DOCTOR: And another thing. If you think I'm going to travel across that acid sea in one of these primitive submersibles, you're very much mistaken. 
ARBITAN: I wouldn't think of asking you to travel in such an absurd way. No, I'm going to give you a device which will enable you to move from place to place. 
DOCTOR: Oh, really. 
ARBITAN: The principle is much the same as that of your ship. Place that around your wrist, please. You told me about, except this will enable you to cross space, not time. 
IAN: What, this little thing? 
DOCTOR: Oh don't be ridiculous, my boy. This is a perfectly acceptable method of travel. Very compact and very neat, sir, if I may say. Yes. 
ARBITAN: They're all programmed to the same destination. You have only to twist the dial once. 
BARBARA: Like this? 
(Barbara vanishes) 
SUSAN: Barbara! 
IAN: What! What have you done to Barbara? 
ARBITAN: You must not waste time. You must follow, quickly. One final word. If when you return, you find the Voord have taken this building, do not let them get the keys. You understand? Destroy them! Now, now, twist the dials. 
(Ian, Susan and the Doctor vanish) 
ARBITAN: For the sake of all my people, I hope you succeed. 
(A Voord sneaks up behind Arbitan and stabs him in the back)

[Outside a metal door]

DOCTOR: Oh, how exhilarating. 
SUSAN: Where's Barbara? She should be here now. Barbara? Barbara? 
IAN: It's Barbara's travel dial. Look, there's blood on it!

Episode Two - The Velvet Web

[Outside a metal door]

DOCTOR: Yes, I can't imagine why Barbara left of her own free will. 
SUSAN: No, surely she'd wait for us. 
IAN: Of course she would. 
DOCTOR: It seems there's only one conclusion. What ever it is that's behind that door must have taken her by force. 
IAN: Let's get inside. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no. Don't let us be precipitous. 
IAN: Doctor, there's blood on this strap. That means she's hurt, maybe badly. We can't argue now. Let's get inside. 
DOCTOR: Very well, but I say I'm sure it's a mistake.

[Room]

(They force the doors apart and are met by a bright flashing light, an alarm and a lot of statues. Then the flashing stops and they get a good look at the comfortable furniture, urns of plants, and) 
IAN: I don't believe it. 
BARBARA: Ian! Susan! I'm glad you're here. 
(Barbara is dressed Roman style, reclining on a couch and being waited on by two women) 
SUSAN: Barbara! You're all right! 
BARBARA: Of course I'm all right. In fact I'm better than all right. 
SUSAN: We saw your travel dial. There was blood on it. 
BARBARA: I know. That was silly. I turned the dial and I seemed to be falling through space. I got frightened and tried to tear it off my wrist. It just scratched me, see. 
IAN: Well, I must say, quite a nice little place you've got here. 
BARBARA: You haven't seen anything yet. Will you get some food for my friends? 
(The two women bow and leave) 
BARBARA: You may be seated. 
IAN: Your royal highness is most gracious. Perhaps if your majesty will stop hogging the grapes we can all have some. 
BARBARA: Help yourself. 
IAN: Thanks. 
SUSAN: This is great. 
IAN: Well, what do you think about all this, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, sensuous and decadent, but rather pleasant. I say, is that a pomegranate? 
IAN: Yes, here you are. 
DOCTOR: Extraordinary. 
IAN: Well, whatever we expected, it certainly wasn't anything like this. 
SUSAN: Oh, those silks. They're gorgeous. I'd love a dress made from one of these. 
BARBARA: Well, that's what they're here for. They asked me to choose the materials I wanted for my robe. 
DOCTOR: It's all most remarkable. 
(A gong sounds and four young women enter with trays of food) 
BARBARA: Oh, it's magnificent. 
IAN: It certainly is. 
SUSAN: Hey, I'm starving. 
BARBARA: What's the matter? Don't you like it? 
IAN: No, I've just realised nobody's shown me the menu. 
SUSAN: They've got everything here. 
DOCTOR: Truffles. I do believe they're truffles. Well, well. 
BARBARA: Go on, Ian. Have one. 
IAN: No. You see, I don't know the price yet. 
BARBARA: But we're guests here. 
IAN: You've met the host, have you? 
BARBARA: Yes, I have, and his manners are perfect. 
DOCTOR: So is his kitchen. Delicious. 
SUSAN: Hey, we've got a visitor. 
IAN: This is where we pay the bill. 
BARBARA: Oh, relax, Ian. 
ALTOS: No, no, don't get up. I apologise for intruding, but I wondered if there was anything you wanted? 
BARBARA: There is one thing you could do. Tell us about this place, about your people. Who do we have to thank for all this? 
ALTOS: You are in the city of Morphoton. Our people are perhaps the most contented in the universe. Nothing they desire is denied them. 
SUSAN: Could I have a dress made 
DOCTOR: Susan. 
ALTOS: No, please, please, let her go on. 
SUSAN: Well, I'd love a dress made from this silk here. 
DOCTOR: Susan, I will not have you take advantage 
ALTOS: She takes no advantage. Truly. Our one wish is to fulfil your every need. She shall have the dress. 
SUSAN: Thank you. Thank you. 
ALTOS: And you? Have you no wish, no great desire? 
DOCTOR: Well, er, yes, perhaps, but I'm afraid it's not quite as easy as giving Susan a dress out of that. 
SUSAN: What is it, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Well, perhaps, if I had to choose, a well equipped laboratory with every conceivable instrument. Yes. Yes. 
ALTOS: It will be arranged. 
IAN: It will? You mean he can have it? 
ALTOS: Perhaps in the morning when you see the laboratory, you will find our way of life easier to understand, to believe. Now, as it is late, I suggest you sleep. In the morning, when you wake, you will learn everything about Morphoton. 
DOCTOR: Hmm. Well, we shall look forward to that. 
IAN: Yes, and even if you're not serious about the laboratory, we're very grateful 
ALTOS: But I am serious. Goodnight. 
BARBARA: Goodnight. 
DOCTOR: Charming young man. Yes, charming. I think a study of this culture is going to prove very, very fascinating. Oh, dear me. I'm tired, you know. 
BARBARA: I think the excitement's been too much for Susan, too. Come on. 
(Barbara lies the already-sleeping Susan on a couch) 
BARBARA: Well, you don't look very happy. 
IAN: Me? No, no, no, not at all. Well, I think it's all marvellous. 
BARBARA: You're not very convincing. I don't know what you want. 
IAN: Perhaps it's my materialistic side. How rich and powerful do you have to be to give things away free? 
BARBARA: Oh, now don't spoil it all for me. 
IAN: I didn't mean to do that. 
BARBARA: You can't apply Earth standards. You just can't. 
IAN: No. Certainly very different here. You notice that man's eyes? 
BARBARA: What about them? 
IAN: He didn't blink once. Am I being ridiculous? 
BARBARA: Yes. They're just kind, hospitable people. 
IAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: Try to get some sleep. You'll feel differently in the morning. 
IAN: I suppose it could be worse. 
(Once they have all laid down and closed their eyes, the eyes on a carving in the wall light up. A woman enters through a secret door and places a device on each of their foreheads, then leaves. But Barbara's head rolls to the side, the device falls off and she sits up. Lights flash and there is a discordant sound. Barbara clutches her head in pain, then passes out) 
(Next morning, Susan, Ian and the Doctor are having breakfast) 
IAN: Oh, good morning. Thank you very much. 
(But the serving girl does not reply) 
DOCTOR: Most refreshing. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Look at these exquisite glasses, Chesterton. 
SUSAN: Can I have some more orange juice, please? 
IAN: Why not? Help yourself, there's plenty more. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, child. Don't take it all. We must leave some for Barbara when she wakes up. 
IAN: Yes, Barbara. She really is having a deep sleep, isn't she? 
DOCTOR: What's the matter, hmm? 
IAN: Oh, this, oh, I don't know. Just a sort of mild irritation on the forehead. It's nothing at all. 
DOCTOR: No, there's nothing there. I only mentioned it because I have rather a sore spot here myself. 
SUSAN: Oh, look! Look, Grandfather, it's my dress. Thank you. Thank you. It's beautiful, look. 
IAN: Yes, it really is very elegant, Susan. 
SUSAN: Can I show Barbara? Can I wake her up? 
IAN: Why not. She can't sleep all the morning. 
SUSAN: Barbara. Barbara. Wake up. Wake up. 
BARBARA: What's happened? 
IAN: What's the matter? 
BARBARA: Well, look. Look around you. Can't you see? 
(From Barbara's viewpoint, the room is dusty and dirty, not elegant and luxurious any more) 
DOCTOR: I don't think she's properly awake. Susan, get me a glass of that fruit juice, will you? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
(But instead of a glass goblet, he offers her a china mug) 
DOCTOR: Here, drink this. 
BARBARA: No, it's filthy! 
DOCTOR: Now you've broken it. 
IAN: Barbara, what's got into you? 
BARBARA: Why can't you see? 
DOCTOR: This is going to test our host's patience, you know. It's one of a set. 
BARBARA: It's just a dirty old mug. And the room, why have they changed it? 
SUSAN: It's the same, Barbara. 
BARBARA: No it isn't. It isn't. And this terrible dress. And the furniture. 
DOCTOR: What's happened to her? 
BARBARA: Why can't you see it? 
IAN: Barbara, Barbara. 
BARBARA: It's all changed! 
IAN: Come on, now, get a hold of yourself. 
SUSAN: Don't be frightened, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Ian, try to see. Please. Try to see the truth. 
SUSAN: Don't be afraid. Look. They brought me my dress. 
(Barbara sees a tatty sack-cloth thing) 
BARBARA: It's dirty. Dirty rags. 
IAN: Barbara, these people are very kind to us. They've given us everything. 
BARBARA: They've given you nothing. I don't know what they've done to you, or why it hasn't worked on me, but I must find a way to show you. I must, before it's too late. 
DOCTOR: Ah, here comes Altos. Now perhaps he can convince you. 
BARBARA: He knows it's failed on me. 
ALTOS: What's the matter? Aren't you feeling well? Let me take you to our physicians. 
BARBARA: No. No. 
ALTOS: Please, I only want to help you. 
BARBARA: No! 
(Barbara runs out of the room) 
IAN: Barbara! 
ALTOS: Please, don't concern yourself. She's overwrought. I'll deal with it. You stay here. 
(Barbara manages to hide from Altos in another room, but when she tries the door again, she can't get back out)

[Morpho's room]

(On a table, in a pair of glass cases, are things that look like brains with eyes on stalks sticking out of the top on them) 
ALTOS: One of the women has resisted the power of the mesmerant. She has escaped into the city. 
MORPHO: Who placed the discs? 
ALTOS: The girl Sabetha. 
MORPHO: She has failed us and must be punished. Return now to the other three. Reassure them about their friend. Take them to their laboratory. In four hours we will give them the final exposure to the mesmerant. They will be completely subjugated. 
ALTOS: And what of the one that has escaped? 
MORPHO: She has seen the truth, and is beyond our control. Find her and destroy her.

[Cell]

(Barbara hides again when she hears someone coming through the door. Then she sees who it is) 
BARBARA: You're the girl who put the discs on our foreheads. 
SABETHA: I made a mistake. I am to be punished. 
BARBARA: Tell me all you can about this place. 
SABETHA: I am to be punished. 
BARBARA: Listen to me. I believe you're under some deep form of deep hypnosis. 
SABETHA: I am to be punished. 
BARBARA: Oh, what's the use?

[Outside the laboratory]

ALTOS: The physician says she was in a highly nervous condition. She is now under deep sedation. She will soon recover. 
IAN: Well, that's a relief. Perhaps we can visit her later? 
ALTOS: Yes, of course. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, well, naturally we're all glad that she's going to be all right, so if there's nothing more we can do for her, I suggest we get a look at the laboratory, hmm? 
(Altos opens the door and they go in)

[Laboratory]

(It's really an empty room, but Ian and Doctor are under the influence of Morpho, remember) 
IAN: I've never seen anything like it! 
DOCTOR: I think I shall find considerable scope here. 
IAN: Doctor, isn't that a cyclotron? 
DOCTOR: What? Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes. A simple toy. I'm sure that will amuse you. Ah, now this might be helpful. 
(he picks up a battered mug) 
DOCTOR: Yes, if I can have instruments like these, I might be able to overcome the fault in the time mechanism aboard the ship.
IAN: They really can do it, eh? They can give you anything you ask for.

[Cell]

(Sabetha is stroking a medallion) 
BARBARA: Where did you get this? 
SABETHA: It's mine. 
BARBARA: I don't want to take it away from you. I just want to know where you got it. 
SABETHA: They gave it to me. My masters. It was the thing I desired most. It's mine. 
BARBARA: But why? Why did you want it? 
SABETHA: It's mine. 
BARBARA: Listen to me. Does the name Arbitan mean anything to you? Arbitan? 
SABETHA: Arbitan? 
BARBARA: Oh, please, please try to remember. 
SABETHA: Arbitan. He sent me here. I was. I can't remember. 
BARBARA: Is Arbitan your father?

[Morpho's room]

MORPHO: Open the panel. They're sleeping soundly. Altos is placing the Somnar discs. Already I sense their will beginning to weaken, memories fading. When they wake, all resistance will have ended. They will remember no more. 
ALTOS: What are your orders for them when they have recovered? 
MORPHO: The two men will join the working parties. We can use the younger one's strength with the haulage gangs. The old man is weaker, but intelligent. Isolate him and put him to work on the scheme for increasing my powers. As for the child, she must be trained rapidly. She will take the place of Sabetha, the one that failed us. 
ALTOS: And what of the one that has escaped? 
MORPHO: That is your responsibility. As soon as it is light, a thorough search must be made. If you fail, you will be killed. She must be found.

[Cell]

BARBARA: Concentrate, Sabitha, please. Look, we're almost finished. 
SABETHA: I can't remember any more. I feel so sleepy. 
(Barbara hears footsteps, and hides. Altos enters and goes to Sabetha) 
ALTOS: You are to come with me. 
(He turns and sees Barbara. They struggle. Sabetha hits him over the head with a pot) 
BARBARA: Sabetha, I must find the others and try and convince them. If I succeed, I'll come back for you.

[Corridor]

BARBARA: Ian! Oh, thank heaven I've found you. Oh, I thought they must have got to you. I thought. Ian? 
IAN: You must be the one who escaped. The one they told me about. 
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: I must take you to them.

[Morpho's room]

MORPHO: So, she has been caught. You have done well and proved yourself worthy. 
BARBARA: It's disgusting. Ian, can't you see how you're being used? 
MORPHO: We are the masters of this place. Our brains out-grew our bodies. It is our intelligence that has created this whole city, but we need the help of the human body to feed us and to carry out our orders. 
BARBARA: You use your people to act as machines for you. 
MORPHO: Much more than machines. The human body is the most flexible instrument in the world. No single mechanical device could reproduce its mobility and dexterity. 
BARBARA: So I'm to become one of your slaves? 
MORPHO: No. You have seen the truth of our city. It is beyond our power to erase this from your memory. You must be destroyed. Kill her. Kill her. 
(Ian puts his hands around Barbara's throat) 
BARBARA: Ian. 
MORPHO: Kill her. Kill her. Kill her. 
(Barbara breaks free and starts smashing the place up) 
MORPHO: Kill her! Kill her! Argh! 
(She gets to the bell jars with the brains, and the things inside them die) 
IAN: Oh, oh, where are we? Barbara! Barbara. 
BARBARA: It's all right, Ian. It's all right now.

[Room]

(Barbara is out of the tatty dress and in her jumper and slacks again) 
BARBARA: They're burning the city! 
IAN: Yes. I don't blame them. Trouble is, they'll be up here soon. 
DOCTOR: Seeking their revenge, are they? Poor creatures. 
BARBARA: Ian thinks we should get out of here as soon as possible. 
IAN: Yes, I do. 
BARBARA: Where's Susan? 
DOCTOR: We're all meeting here. She's bringing Sabetha and that young man Altos. I questioned him and there's no doubt about it. He's one of Arbitan's couriers. 
IAN: They're coming with us? 
DOCTOR: Yes. He's going with you, certainly. By the way, I found these travel dials. Those repellant brain things didn't appreciate their significance, fortunately. 
BARBARA: Doctor, what did you mean, Altos is going with you? 
DOCTOR: I will explain it all in good time. Ah, here are the others. 
IAN: Good. Let's go, then. 
DOCTOR: No, wait. Now, we have one key and there are three more to find. 
SUSAN: Yes. Sabetha wanted to continue the search with us. 
ALTOS: I wish to join you, too. 
DOCTOR: Good idea. 
ALTOS: I was sent by Arbitan. I and a friend called Eprin. Our plan was as follows. He would go ahead in search of key four, and I would come here for the first. 
IAN: Arbitan hadn't heard from either of you. Or anyone else, for that matter. 
DOCTOR: Well, we must presume something has happened to your friend Eprin. 
ALTOS: It may just be that he couldn't reach the key. It lies somewhere in the city of Millenius. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, the place you mentioned, yes. The highly civilised society. Now then, I've decided to adopt his plan. 
IAN: What? You mean go two jumps ahead and try and find the fourth key? 
DOCTOR: Yes, precisely. I shall try and find out what's happened to your friend Eprin. If he's alive, make contact, then we can all meet again. 
SUSAN: Do you know how to adjust the dial, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Yes, Altos has shown me how to adjust mine. 
SUSAN: Yours? Well, aren't I coming? 
DOCTOR: No. I think it better if you travel with the main party, child. 
SUSAN: But I want to go with you! 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I know, Susan, but don't you see it's better if we split our forces. You see, it's a very dangerous situation and the sooner we get on with it, the better. For my part, I know you'll be well looked after. And as for me, well, I'm going to a well-ordered society and I think it's the best and speediest way, really. 
SUSAN: All right. Won't be for long though, will it? 
DOCTOR: No. 
BARBARA: I was wondering if we should fix a time to meet. 
DOCTOR: Say five days. 
IAN: Yes, that's not a bad idea. But you'd better give us another two just in case of possible delays. 
BARBARA: I hope everything won't be as bad as this place. 
DOCTOR: No, I hope not. Put these on, please. 
IAN: Well, goodbye Doctor, and take care of yourself. 
DOCTOR: Oh, of course I will. And you see that you take good care of Susan. 
BARBARA: Yes, we will. 
ALTOS: Well, I'm ready. 
SABETHA: So am I. I wish you well, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, my dear. Now off you go. 
SUSAN: Goodbye, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye, my child. 
(Susan disappears) 
BARBARA: Susan! She should have waited for us. 
DOCTOR: Now, quickly. You must go and follow her.

[Jungle]

(It's a noisy place, and Susan is scared) 
SUSAN: Stop it! Stop it! Go away! Go away!

Episode Three - The Screaming Jungle

[Ruins]

BARBARA: Susan. 
SUSAN: Oh, go back! 
BARBARA: What is it? 
SUSAN: We can't stay here. It's stopped. 
BARBARA: What did you see? 
IAN: What's the matter? 
BARBARA: Susan, answer me. 
SUSAN: Didn't you hear it? 
ALTOS: There could be animals in this jungle around us. 
SUSAN: No, no, it wasn't anything like that. 
IAN: Take it easy, Susan, and try and tell us what it was you heard. 
SUSAN: Well, well, it was horrible. 
BARBARA: She'll tell us in time. Look, Susan, whatever it was, it's gone now. 
SUSAN: I did hear it, you know. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
SABETHA: This is a dead place. 
IAN: Yes, it's very quiet, isn't it. 
SABETHA: That isn't quite what I meant. 
ALTOS: The key must be on the other side of this wall. 
IAN: Yes. Some sort of an archway. Look at these creepers. 
ALTOS: Some of them are almost as thick as small trees. 
SUSAN: And was Grandfather all right? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
SUSAN: I didn't want to stay until the last possible moment. I don't like to say goodbye. 
BARBARA: No, I know. 
SABETHA: I suppose we could cut them down. 
IAN: Not unless we have to. Take us the best part of a day to hack that little lot down. The best thing we can do is take a walk round these walls. 
ALTOS: Oh yes, that would be wise. Then we might find another entrance. 
SABETHA: I'll go with you. 
BARBARA: Ian, Susan and I will stay here. 
IAN: All right. We won't be long, anyway. 
BARBARA: We'll look around for some branches and things in case we have to force our way though that arch. 
IAN: That's a good idea, but don't do anything until we get back, hey? 
BARBARA: All right. 
IAN: Come on, let's try this way. 
BARBARA: I do wish Ian wouldn't treat us like Dresden china. 
SUSAN: I think it's nice the way he looks after us all the time. 
BARBARA: Yes, I know, but just once in a while 
SUSAN: You rebel. 
BARBARA: Yes. How are you feeling now? 
SUSAN: Oh, I'm all right, thank you. 
BARBARA: Susan, what did happen? 
SUSAN: Well, it was a sound. A noise like tapping, and whirring, all mixed up with a screeching. I've heard it before. 
BARBARA: Where? 
SUSAN: Well that's just it. I can't remember. I just recognise it as being something evil. 
BARBARA: You know, I've never seen vegetation as dense as this before. It'll overrun the building in time. 
SUSAN: Do you think the key's inside, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Oh yes, it must be. It's a funny old place, isn't it? You know, in a few years these walls will be so weak you could push your way through. 
(Meanwhile, a climbing plant is moving on its own toward where Susan is lying on the ground, relaxing) 
BARBARA: You know, Susan, looking at this archway, I'm not at all sure. It isn't half as dense as it looks. I'm sure we could get through. 
(The plant has grabbed Susan's ankle. She screams) 
SUSAN: Barbara! Barbara! 
(Barbara gets the plant off Susan and thumps it with a rock) 
SUSAN: It was alive! A snake crawling all over me! 
BARBARA: No, no. It must have fallen on you from the trees. 
SUSAN: It didn't, it didn't. It's alive. 
BARBARA: Now stop it, Susan. Stop it. 
SUSAN: It was trying to twine all round me. 
BARBARA: It was just your imagination. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry. 
BARBARA: It couldn't move by itself. You know it couldn't. 
SUSAN: No. 
BARBARA: Come on over here and help me at the archway. You know, you'll frighten me if you go on like this. 
SUSAN: Oh look, you can move some of these back quite easily. 
BARBARA: Yes, I thought so. 
(She goes through the archway) 
SUSAN: What is it? 
BARBARA: I'm not sure. It's so dark in here. There's a statue at the end of the tunnel. An idol or something. 
SUSAN: Be careful, Barbara. Barbara? Barbara? Are you all right? 
(Barbara has reached the idol in it's niche. It has an animal face, sunburst hair and open arms) 
SUSAN: Oh, please don't go any further! 
BARBARA [OC]: It's all right, I can see it now. It's a big grotesque statue. 
IAN: Oh, there's no other way in, Susan. 
SUSAN: Oh, Ian, thank goodness you're here. 
IAN: What? Where's Barbara? 
SUSAN: She's gone down here. 
IAN: Barbara! What are you doing? I told you to wait until we got back.

[Statue]

BARBARA: I thought there was a way through. Ian, look! The key, the microcircuit, I've found it! 
IAN [OC]: Hang on, I'm coming. 
BARBARA: No, no, it's all right, I can reach it.

[Ruins]

ALTOS: What's happening? 
IAN: Barbara's found the micro-key. 
SABETHA: Wonderful. 
ALTOS: Can you manage?

[Statue]

BARBARA: Yes, yes, I think I've got it. 
(She climbs up the statue and triggers some mechanism. The statue's arms close around her legs) 
BARBARA: Ian! Help me! Help me! 
(The men dash in through the archway but the statue pivots round and when they get there it is just a blank wall) 
IAN: You see what happened? 
ALTOS: Yes. Is there no break in the wall? Perhaps there's a hidden spring. 
IAN: Well if there is, I can't find it. 
ALTOS: Well we must get inside. 
IAN: Yes, but how? Oh, let's get out in the open. I can't think in here. 
(Altos finds the micro-key on the floor)

[Ruins]

IAN: Barbara's disappeared. That idol thing was on some sort of a pivot. 
ALTOS: At least she found the micro-key. 
IAN: Oh, I don't care about that now. The only thing that matters is getting Barbara out of there. 
ALTOS: Yes, I agree. Here, Sabetha, you'd better take this. Keep it with the other, and keep it safe. 
SABETHA: Thank you. Look, I don't want to raise false hopes, but perhaps things aren't as bad as they seem. 
IAN: What do you mean? 
SABETHA: Well, Barbara was wearing her travel dial, wasn't she? 
SUSAN: Yes. None of us have taken them off. 
SABETHA: Then as long as she wasn't injured when she was trapped, she can escape whenever she wants. 
IAN: It's a possibility. 
ALTOS: Well, I'm sure she would have thought of that. 
IAN: Yes, of course. She may not have taken advantage of it yet. Anything might have happened to her. 
SABETHA: But if she was in danger, she'd have to use her travel dial. 
(They hear the mechanism) 
SUSAN: It's turning again. Now the arms are open. 
ALTOS: That means it either must have released her or she's escaped. 
IAN: She may have been injured, or even 
SABETHA: But if she used her travel dial, and gone on to the next destination, we don't know what danger she may be in there. 
IAN: No. Well, we must cover all possibilities to the best of our abilities. You'd better go on ahead with Susan and Altos. 
ALTOS: Yes, that's wise. I think that is the wisest course. 
SUSAN: Ian, what are you going to do? 
IAN: I'm going back in there. If that idol works once as a trap, there's no reason why it shouldn't work again. Once inside, well, if there's no sign of Barbara, I'll follow you as quickly as I can. 
ALTOS: Well, if that's settled, there's no point in delaying. You ready, Sabetha? Susan? 
SUSAN: Can't I come with you, Ian? 
IAN: No, Susan. Better not. 
SABETHA: We'll wait for you, Ian. 
ALTOS: And I'll be your guardian, Susan. 
IAN: Look after her, Altos. 
ALTOS: Take care, my friend. 
SUSAN: Goodbye, Ian. 
IAN: Good luck. (Altos and Susan vanish. Sabetha has dropped the micro-key) Here, you'd better put this on your chain with the other one. We don't want you losing it somewhere in outer space. 
SABETHA: That would be terrible. There. I think that's safe enough. This isn't it. 
IAN: What? 
SABETHA: It's just an imitation. Look, Ian. This edge is a fraction shorter. 
IAN: Are you absolutely sure? I mean, isn't it possible there was some genuine variation in the original micro-keys? 
SABETHA: No, they all look absolutely identical, so this one must be an imitation. 
IAN: We're no further on than when we arrived here. 
SABETHA: Do you want me to stay with you? 
IAN: No. You go on ahead with the others. They'll be worried already. Tell them what happened, and tell them I'll follow as soon as I find the real micro-key. 
SABETHA: Please be careful. 
IAN: I will. Off you go. 
(He goes to the statue, it holds him and turns around)

[Courtyard]

(There are plenty of statues and plants here. Ian steps on a loose paver and an axeman starts working) 
BARBARA: Ian, behind you! 
(Ian gets out of the way of the axe) 
BARBARA: You're not hurt? 
IAN: No, just a bit shaken. Barbara, if you hadn't shouted 
BARBARA: Never mind about that now. Ian, I've been so frightened. If you hadn't turned up in another half an hour I was going to turn the travel dial. 
IAN: I'm glad you didn't. That micro-key you found, it was a fake. 
BARBARA: What? 
IAN: Yes. The real one must be in here somewhere. 
BARBARA: And I warn you it's not going to be easy to find. 
IAN: No? 
BARBARA: This whole place is one big booby-trap. It's full of things like that statue. I'd only been here a minute when part of the wall crashed down just where I'd been standing. 
IAN: We'll take it very slowly. That doorway looks a good place to start. Any idea where it leads to? 
BARBARA: No. Into the building, I suppose. 
IAN: Well, that's a likely place to hide a key. Come on. 
BARBARA: These vines are everywhere. They seem to be crawling all over the building. 
IAN: Not only the vines. It's all vegetation. Look at that wall. 
BARBARA: It seems to be trying to get in. 
IAN: Let's get the micro-key and get out of here. It looks as if we're going to have to break this door down. It's pretty solid. I shall need something to. I wish I could. 
BARBARA: I saw some iron bars in an alcove down there. 
(an old man apparently opens the door) 
BARBARA: Ian. Ian! 
IAN: I'll be right with you. 
(Barbara goes inside and a net drops on her from the ceiling. She sees the ceiling has knives sticking out of it, and it is descending towards her. She screams) 
(Ian tugs at an iron bar, but it has a chain attached to it and he gets trapped behind an iron grating) 
BARBARA [OC]: Ian! Ian! 
(He tries to use another bar to prise the grating open)

[Ante-chamber]

BARBARA: Help me, Ian. Help me! 
(the old man reverses the mechanism) 
DARRIUS: Why have you come in search of the keys? 
BARBARA: Help me. 
DARRIUS: Who are you? What interest have you in the keys? 
BARBARA: Look, I can't talk to you like this. Let me go. 
DARRIUS: Are you a Voord? You do not resemble their race and yet 
BARBARA: Arbitan sent us. 
DARRIUS: That is a lie. 
BARBARA: No, it's true. He was alone on the island. He couldn't send anyone else. 
DARRIUS: How can you prove it? 
BARBARA: I don't know. Look, where's Ian? What have you done to him? 
DARRIUS: How can you prove that Arbitan sent you. 
BARBARA: Oh, the travel dial on my wrist. 
DARRIUS: I will examine this, and if it is set correctly with the proper journey programme I shall know that you speak the truth. Only Arbitan could set your complete journey. 
BARBARA: What have you done with Ian? 
(But the man leaves her. Ian is still trying to get through his bars, and succeeds. The man meanwhile has got caught by a vine and is being throttled)

[Room]

DARRIUS: Help me! Help me!

[Ante-chamber]

IAN: Barbara. Are you all right? 
BARBARA: Yes. In there. 
IAN: What? 
BARBARA: In here. MAN [OC]: Help me!

[Bed room]

DARRIUS: Help! Help me. 
(Ian uses a bar or sword to cut him free) 
DARRIUS: It's coming again. The jungle is coming. When the whispering starts, it's death, I tell you. Death! 
(Later, the old man is in his bed) 
BARBARA: He's coming round, Ian. Ian, I think he's dying. 
DARRIUS: You must not stay here. 
IAN: Listen to me. Where is the micro-key? We're looking for it. Do you understand? Arbitan sent us. 
DARRIUS: Has Arbitan sent someone at last? 
IAN: Yes. 
DARRIUS: The idol. I put a false key on its head. 
BARBARA: Yes, I found it. 
DARRIUS: I know. A system of mirrors. When the false key was taken I put my traps in motion. Only those warned by Arbitan could avoid them. 
BARBARA: He's getting weaker, Ian. I wish there was something I could do. I feel so helpless. 
DARRIUS: I haven't long to live, have I? 
IAN: You must trust us. Tell us, where is the micro-key? 
DARRIUS: Closer. D E 3 O 2. 
IAN: What do you mean? I don't understand. 
DARRIUS: Quickly, the darkness! The whispering will start. 
(He dies) 
BARBARA: He pointed to this door. What did the numbers and the letters mean? 
IAN: I don't know. Could be the combination to a safe. Let's go and see.

[Living room]

(Furniture, pot plants) 
BARBARA: Ian, you were right. It is a safe. 
IAN: And a combination one, at that. 
BARBARA: D E 3 O 2. 
IAN: Hello. It's only got the letters on. Perhaps the figures were the numbers of turns? 
BARBARA: Yes, try it. 
IAN: D E 1 2 3 O 1 2. It doesn't work. Are you sure we got it right? 
BARBARA: Yes, certain. 
IAN: Try again. D E 1 2 3 O 1 2. No, no, it doesn't work. Well, I suppose he could have hidden the combination somewhere. 
BARBARA: Yes, I suppose so. There's also a possibility that he didn't mean the safe at all. Judging by the traps and decoys around here, I should think the obvious hiding place is the least likely. 
IAN: We must go over this room inch by inch. Eliminating everything but the safe. Then if we haven't found it, it must be in here. 
BARBARA: I'll start over here. 
(Much later) 
BARBARA: Ian, I've been trying to think back. What did he mean, darkness, the whispering will begin. Whispering? I wonder if that's what Susan heard? 
IAN: I don't know. I think he was rambling, he didn't mean anything. I'm hoping to find a lead in here. It's a diary of his experiments. 
BARBARA: What was he working on? 
IAN: Biology seems to have been his field as far as I can make out. 
BARBARA: Well, judging by the specimens in here, I'd say he was very successful. 
IAN: Yes. Last couple of entries are a bit strange. All about the balance of nature and increased destructive forces. Listen to this. Nature has a fixed tempo of destruction. Water dripping on a stone may take a thousand years to produce any sign of wear. 
BARBARA: Well, that's not very original. 
IAN: It is if you could speed up everything. The wear on the stone could happen in one day. 
BARBARA: But that's ridiculous. 
IAN: Is it? He didn't seem to think so. He ends up by saying, the growth accelerator has changed nature's tempo of destruction entirely. 
BARBARA: Yes, well that may all be very fascinating, but we are supposed to be looking for the combination to that safe. 
IAN: All right. All right. 
BARBARA: You know, it's quite dark outside. Have you looked through this one? 
IAN: No. 
(The noises start) 
IAN: What's that? 
BARBARA: I don't know. It sounds like whispering. He said it would begin when darkness came. That must be what Susan heard. 
IAN: Well, what's causing it? 
BARBARA: Shush. Listen. It's like someone trying to get in. 
IAN: You said that when we were outside, about the jungle. 
BARBARA: But it couldn't, Ian, it couldn't. 
(Tendrils are pushing through the walls) 
IAN: Look! Oh, Barbara, don't you see? It's what he meant. Tempo of destruction. It would normally take fifty or a hundred years for a jungle to overrun this place. Now the whole process has been accelerated. 
BARBARA: You mean the jungle is attacking us? 
IAN: Yes. 
(Barbara's ankles get grabbed by a vine, and while he is freeing her, Ian spots the label on a broken glass jar - NH4NO3) 
IAN: Look, Barbara. It's a chemical formula! DE3O2. The micro-key's in one of these jars. Come on! Quickly, find it. 
(She does) 
BARBARA: Ian, the key! 
IAN: Barbara, you've found it! Let's get out of here, quickly. Turn the travel dial, now! Now!

[Snowfield]

BARBARA: Oh, it must be far below zero. 
IAN: Barbara, this wind's going right through me. We must move. 
BARBARA: I can't. I can't move, Ian. I'm too cold. 
IAN: Barbara, you've got to. We must move. If we don't find shelter, we don't stand a chance.

Episode Four - The Snows of Terror

[Snowfield]

BARBARA: It's no good, Ian. I'm too tired. Sleep. 
IAN: No! 
BARBARA: I must sleep. 
IAN: No. No, Barbara. We'll freeze to death. 
(They both pass out. Barbara wakes briefly to see someone dressed in furs standing over her. He takes the micro-key from her hand)

[Vasar's hut]

(The wind is howling outside, but there's a fire in the grate. The man wakes Barbara again) 
VASAR: Don't be afraid. You're safe now. 
BARBARA: Oh, how did I? Ian? Where's Ian? 
VASAR: Your friend is here. He still sleeps. Your hand is slightly frostbitten. Put it in mine. We must help your friend like this too. Rub the hand slowly, like this. Yes? Understand? Are you afraid of me? 
BARBARA: No. 
VASAR: Last year I broke the back of a wolf with my bare hands. I'm Vasar. Most men fear me, so I have few visitors. There, see? The blood is beginning to return. 
BARBARA: Thank you. 
VASAR: I'll get a warm drink for both of you. 
BARBARA: Ian, wake up. How are you feeling? 
IAN: Oh, my hands. 
BARBARA: Yes, they're swollen with frostbite. No, no, no, you mustn't put them near the fire. You have to bring back the circulation slowly. 
(Barbara strokes his hand) 
IAN: Where are we? 
BARBARA: I don't know. I don't even know how we got here. 
VASAR: Ah, you're awake. Good. Here, drink this. 
IAN: Oh, thank you. Mmm. Oh, that's better. Do we have you to thank for saving us on the mountain. 
VASAR: I found you when I was resetting my traps. Had a difficult journey getting you back to the hut. 
BARBARA: We would have frozen to death. 
VASAR: The wolves would have eaten you first. 
IAN: Wolves? 
VASAR: Yes, there are more than ever of them this winter. I've counted a dozen packs, twenty in each. They're hungry. They're even raiding the villages at night. 
BARBARA: Are we in a village? 
VASAR: No, the nearest village is three miles away. I stay out here to look after my traps. 
IAN: Well, we're grateful to you, getting to us before the wolves. 
VASAR: One of you would have died anyway if it hadn't been for the stranger. Couldn't carry you both. 
BARBARA: Stranger? What stranger? 
VASAR: A madman. Came in here early last night, raving and ranting. I couldn't talk to him. Gave him some clothes and went with him up the mountain. He was searching for a couple of girls. 
IAN: Altos! 
BARBARA: Where is he now? 
VASAR: In the village, I think. After we got you back here, I think he went out. 
BARBARA: Did he say he was coming back? 
VASAR: Yes, but it's getting nearly dark. He won't be able to get over the ledge at night. 
IAN: We must go and help him. 
VASAR: There's a storm coming up. 
IAN: You've already done so much for us. I can't ask you to risk coming with me, but will you lend me warm clothing? 
VASAR: Lend you? My furs are my living. I'm a poor man. I wouldn't have much chance of getting them back if you fall down a crevice. 
IAN: I can't pay you for them. I haven't got any money. 
VASAR: That thing on your wrist looks valuable. 
IAN: Yes, all right. Now please, hurry. 
VASAR: All right, coat and gloves over there. I'll get you a lantern. 
BARBARA: Ian, Susan and Sabetha, do you think you'll find them? 
IAN: I don't know what to think, Barbara. I'll know more when and if I find Altos. 
VASAR: Here you are. The village lies that way. When you get through the fur forest you'll see the lights. 
IAN: Well, thank you. 
BARBARA: Ian. 
IAN: I'll be back as soon as I can. 
(Ian leaves, and Vasar bolts the door behind him) 
VASAR: Now, we're alone. 
BARBARA: Oh, he'll be back. I know he will. 
VASAR: We'll see. Well I'll go and get us some food. We must fatten you up, eh?

[Snowfield]

(Ian finds Altos lying in the snow. His hands have been tied together)

[Vasar's hut]

(The wolves are howling) 
BARBARA: They sound so close. 
VASAR: You're safe here. That door'll keep anything out. Or in. You clear those things will you, and I'll get rid of these. 
(Barbara opens a drawer in the table and finds - three travel dials and) 
BARBARA: Sabetha's chain. 
VASAR: What are you doing in that drawer? 
BARBARA: Where did you get these? One of the girls was wearing this. 
VASAR: You give me those. They're worth money. 
BARBARA: How did you get them? 
VASAR: There's a cave on the mountain where I store my traps. I found the two girls hiding there. 
BARBARA: So they're alive. 
VASAR: They may be. That was yesterday. I gave them food and flint in return for these, and I left them there. 
BARBARA: But why? Why didn't you bring them back? 
VASAR: Oh, don't keep annoying me. These accusations. I can't afford to look after every fool that gets lost on the mountains. 
BARBARA: They gave you all those things in the drawer. 
VASAR: Trinkets. 
BARBARA: But what about Altos? The young man, who 
VASAR: He forced me to go up the mountain to look for these girls. Instead we found you. And when we'd brought you back here he wanted to go out again. 
BARBARA: I don't believe you. You stole those things. 
VASAR: Oh, did I? 
BARBARA: They might have given you the wrist bracelets, but the keys and the chain? Sabetha would never have parted with them. 
VASAR: Yes, I thought they were valuable. 
BARBARA: What have you done with them? You didn't kill them? 
VASAR: You don't kill anyone in this country. The cold and the wolves do that. 
BARBARA: Well, when Ian gets back 
VASAR: What makes you think he will get back? He doesn't know what's in that bag I gave him. 
BARBARA: What did you put in it? Tell me!

[Snowfield]

(Ian is trying to get Altos' circulation going.) 
IAN: They're getting closer. We can't stay here. How are your legs? 
ALTOS: The feeling's beginning to return. I should be able to walk in a minute or two. 
IAN: You haven't yet told me who tied you up. 
ALTOS: The trapper. 
IAN: What? But he rescued us. 
ALTOS: Only because I forced him to. He's utterly ruthless. 
IAN: Barbara's back there with him. Alone! 
ALTOS: We must get back there as quickly as we can. Come on, help me up. 
IAN: All right. Can you stand? 
ALTOS: Yes. 
IAN: Just a minute, look at this. Raw meat. What on earth would Vasar want to give me that for? 
(Wolves howl) 
ALTOS: There's your answer. Those beasts could scent meat a couple of miles away. Draw them like a magnet. Vasar's making certain you wouldn't get back. 
IAN: Well he's got a surprise coming, hasn't he. 
(Ian throws the bag away) 
IAN: Come on.

[Vasar's hut]

VASAR: There's nowhere you can run. 
BARBARA: Keep away. 
(She picks up the poker) 
VASAR: Put that down. 
BARBARA: Don't you dare come near me. 
VASAR: All right, I'm in no hurry. There's no one coming to help you. I can wait.

[Snowfield]

IAN: They're catching up. 
ALTOS: Look! 
IAN: About a quarter of a mile, I make it. I think we've got a chance, but we'll have to run, Altos. 
ALTOS: All right, I'll try. Come on.

[Vasar's hut]

(Barbara has had to defend her honour with the poker, and has hurt Vasar) 
VASAR: All right, I'll wait no longer. 
(He chases her around the table, she stumbles and screams, then there's a hammering at the door. Vasar is immobile with surprise, so Barbara runs to the door) 
IAN [OC]: Barbara, open the door! 
VASAR: Come back. 
IAN [OC]: Open the door! 
(Barbara bites Vasar's hand and pulls back the bolts) 
IAN [OC]: Open the door! Open the door! 
(Ian and Altos enter) 
IAN: Are you all right? 
BARBARA: Yes, the girls are all right. They're in a cave in the mountain. 
VASAR: I meant them no harm, I swear it. I gave them food and flint to light a fire. 
ALTOS: You treacherous 
IAN: No, Altos. We want him unharmed. He's going to show us where the cave is.

[Cave]

(Susan is failing to keep the fire going) 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Sabetha. 
SABETHA: It doesn't matter. There is hardly any wood left. 
SUSAN: Look, there's no point in us waiting here. We must go out there and take a chance. 
SABETHA: In these clothes? We wouldn't last an hour. 
SUSAN: How long do you think we'll last here without any fire? 
SABETHA: I suppose you're right. 
SUSAN: Come on, then. 
SABETHA: That isn't the way we came in. It was the tunnel on the right. 
SUSAN: Well I'm sure it was this one. 
SABETHA: I could have sworn it. Well, if you're certain. 
SUSAN: I thought I was certain. You've made me doubtful now. 
SABETHA: Come on, let's try it.

[Snowfield]

IAN: How much further? 
VASAR: It's just beyond the next ridge. When we get there, can I go back? 
IAN: You're getting no promises out of me. Come on.

[Tunnel]

(The girls have come to a dead end) 
SABETHA: Now we've got to go back. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Sabetha. 
SABETHA: It's not your fault. Don't worry, we'll just go back the way we came. Come on.

[Cave]

IAN: They're not here. 
VASAR: Look, there's been a fire. I told you I helped them. 
IAN: This ash is still warm. They can't have been gone long. 
BARBARA: Is there another way out of these caves? 
VASAR: No, this is the only one. 
ALTOS: How far do these tunnels go? 
VASAR: Oh, right through the mountain. 
IAN: Then they must have gone in deeper. Lead on, Vasar. 
VASAR: No! No! No! We mustn't! There are demons in there. I won't go on. 
IAN: I am not asking you, I'm telling you. Now, move!

[Bridge]

SUSAN: It's no good, Sabetha. We're just going deeper into the mountain. 
SABETHA: If we keep going, we must find a way out. Now, come on. 
SUSAN: Oh, look. We've got a rope bridge. 
SABETHA: Be careful. Is it safe? 
SUSAN: I think so. 
SABETHA: Don't look down. 
(Susan gets to the other side of the narrow chasm, and Sabetha follows) 
SABETHA: Come on, let's move quickly.

[Tunnel]

BARBARA: I've just realised. This wall isn't rock, it's solid ice. 
VASAR: Oh, please, we mustn't go on. I told you the truth when I said there were demons here. There are men who've seen them. 
IAN: Well, who knows, you might be a man who's seen them too. You're not going back, anyway. Come on, get on. Go.

[Bridge]

(They come to the rope bridge as Susan and Sabetha come to a room with four knights in armour standing guard around a block of ice. They run back into the arms of their would-be rescuers)
SUSAN: Oh, Barbara! 
IAN: Hang on, I'm coming over. 
BARBARA: Ian. 
IAN: Thank you. Oh, Susan. Here, put this round you. 
SUSAN: I though we'd never get out of there. 
IAN: Well, you're all right now. What happened? 
BARBARA: What was it that frightened you? 
SABETHA: Down there. There's somebody down there. 
SUSAN: We almost ran into them. 
ALTOS: Ian, stop him! 
(On the other side of the five foot gap, Vasar is unfastening the rope bridge. He throws it down.) 
IAN: Vasar, wait. 
VASAR: No, you wait. Wait there forever. There's no other way out. 
(Vasar leaves) 
IAN: What a fool I was. 
BARBARA: How do we get across? 
IAN: I don't know. It's too wide to jump. 
BARBARA: Well, maybe we could find some planks or logs and lay them across. 
IAN: Yes, all right. Let's go and look. 
ALTOS: Shall I lead the way? 
IAN: Yes.

[Tunnel]

ALTOS: Sabetha, keep close behind me. Look out for this slope. 
IAN: Yes. Mind the slope. All right? Altos, look out! This rock's the only thing supporting this block of ice. 
ALTOS: It might have crushed us to death. 
IAN: Yes, well the only thing to do is keep away from it. Keep down as you go under. 
ALTOS: Yes, I agree. 
IAN: Right down. 
SUSAN: Can't we go back? 
BARBARA: No, Susan, we must find the key. 
IAN: Susan, we must search all these tunnels properly. That key's probably hidden somewhere here, inside the mountain. 
SUSAN: Not there! 
IAN: We have no alternative.

[Knight's room]

BARBARA: Is this what you saw, Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes. But they seem so life-like. 
IAN: These must be the demons that Vasar talked about. Well they're certainly the stuff that make legends. 
SABETHA: Look, right in the middle of the ice. It's the key. 
ALTOS: Yes. It couldn't be better protected, could it? A solid block of ice. 
IAN: And four dead warriors to guard it, eh? Each perfectly preserved. They certainly look frightening enough, don't they. 
BARBARA: There's a pipe here. It runs right round the block of ice. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes, look. It comes out over here. You can see it running underneath the ice. 
BARBARA: Ian, over here. It's a sort of valve, or something. 
(She starts turning it) 
IAN: Whoa, steady on. Go on turning it. It's getting warmer. (the pipe) 
SABETHA: But how could it be? Where could the heat come from? 
BARBARA: Must be a volcanic spring buried deep in the bowels of the earth. Like the hot springs in Iceland. 
SABETHA: Iceland? Where's that? 
IAN: In our own country, far away. 
SUSAN: It's melting. 
ALTOS: Quite quickly. 
IAN: Well, while we're waiting for it to melt, let's go and see what we can do about that bridge.

[Bridge]

(Ian is tying two logs together) 
IAN: With any luck they'll freeze together. Cold on the hands, isn't it. Well, lets get it over. Careful. We don't want it to break. Right, slide it along that one gently. Right, now careful when it comes off the end. Careful. Oh, it didn't break. Right, let's get some more, pile them round. Where are the girls? 
ALTOS: I asked them to go and see how the melting process was coming along.

[Knight's room]

(Two of the guards look as if they've fallen over) 
SABETHA: The key! 
BARBARA: Ian, Altos, it's all right. The ice has melted. 
SUSAN: Hey, look at these weapons. Wouldn't like to come across one of these in a battle. 
(The guard straightens up) 
SUSAN: He's alive! He's alive! 
IAN: What's the matter? Get out of here! Run! Have you got the key? 
SABETHA: Yes! 
IAN: Then run! 
(The four guards advance slowly on Ian blocking the exit)

[Bridge]

(Susan ties part of the old rope bridge around her wrist, then slowly crawls onto Ian's new bridge) 
BARBARA: Susan. 
ALTOS: It'll never take her weight. It can't have frozen solid yet. 
(a piece of the wood breaks away but she keeps going. Ian pulls down the rock that is holding up the ice wall to hold up the guards. Susan makes it to the other side and pulls the old rope bridge back into place)
ALTOS: Well done, Susan. Come on, Sabetha. Get ready. You first. 
(The guards get past the fallen rock as the adults cross the rope bridge) 
IAN: Right, you carry on. I'll catch you up. 
(Ian unfastens the rope bridge, and a guard falls screaming down into the crevasse)

[Vasar's hut]

(Vasar is gloating over the travel dials and micro-keys when the travellers burst in)
VASAR: What? How did you get? 
IAN: We've come to collect our things, Vasar. 
VASAR: No! No! No! No! 
(Vasar runs out) 
IAN: Here, Sabetha, put those round your neck. Now, put the travel dial on. We've all got our travel dials on? We'll keep our date with the Doctor. 
VASAR: They're coming, they're coming. The devils from the mountain are coming here. 
(There's a hammering at the door) 
IAN: I'm afraid you'll have to entertain them alone, Vasar. We have to leave you. 
VASAR: (grabbing Susan) No! You stay, you hear? Stay, or I'll kill her. 
IAN: Take your hands off her. 
VASAR: I'm going out the back way. 
(He lets go of Susan then falls forward. He's been stabbed in the back by a sword stuck through the door) 
IAN: He's dead. The dials, quick, the dials. 
(The three guards burst in and find no one alive)

[Vault]

(It's a room with display cases, and a body on the floor. As Ian tries to open the case with the key in it, he gets hit on the head. Then his attacker puts the weapon into Ian's hand, takes his travel dial, opens the case so an alarm goes off and takes the key for himself)

Episode Five - Sentence of Death

[Vault]

(The alarm has stopped when Ian wakes up with a bad headache, and discovers that the key is gone) 
Do you want to tell me where you've hidden it? 
IAN: Who are you? 
TARRON: My name is Tarron. I'm an interrogator in the Guardian Division. You feel well enough to talk? 
IAN: Well, my head's pretty sore. What happened here? 
TARRON: I'm waiting for you to tell me. 
IAN: Me? I don't know much. I just came through that door. 
TARRON: It was unlocked? 
IAN: It was ajar. I saw the body on the floor, I bent down to have a look, and someone hit me on the head from behind. 
TARRON: You could not have come through that door unless the guard on duty in here let you in. 
IAN: It was open. I've already told you. 
TARRON: This is a maximum security vault. No one is admitted until they've undergone a complete probity check. There's no record of you ever having completed such a check. 
IAN: Well of course there isn't. I've never been here before. 
TARRON: However, you did get inside. I must assume that you either tricked the guard there or you were in league with him. 
IAN: What? What are you talking about? I told you how I got in. 
TARRON: Yes, and I'm recording all your answers. Do you feel well enough? Are you going to tell me the truth? 
IAN: Yes, well, as far as I can, but 
TARRON: Well, let's be orderly about this. Name? 
IAN: Ian Chesterton. 
TARRON: You are a visitor to this district? 
IAN: Yes. 
TARRON: Your work? 
IAN: I'm a teacher. Science. 
TARRON: Hmm. You know the purpose of the micro-key? No reply. It would make my report complete if you would tell me how you got rid of the micro-key.
IAN: I didn't get rid of it. I never had it. I saw it in that glass case before someone hit me on the back of the head. 
TARRON: While you were unconscious, my men searched the room. They searched you and the body of the guard. They didn't find it. Now, what did you do with it? 
IAN: I didn't do anything with it. I told you all I know. 
TARRON: All right. (into telephone) Open your side. We're coming out. 
IAN: Where are we going? 
TARRON: To the Guardian building. You will be charged formally. 
IAN: Charged? With what? 
TARRON: Murder. 
IAN: Just a minute, what's your name? Tarron? 
TARRON: Yes. 
IAN: This business is beginning to run away from me. I've told you the truth! 
TARRON: That isn't for me to decide. 
IAN: But there was another man in here. I've got a lump on the back of my head to prove it. 
TARRON: The dead man could have hit you before he was killed. 
IAN: I suppose I killed him while I was unconscious. 
TARRON: Well it does suggest you had an accomplice, I agree. So you had better produce him. That's my advice to you, for what it's worth. 
IAN: I don't have to produce him, Tarron. You do. This is circumstantial evidence. You must prove that I did the actual killing. 
TARRON: That is contrary to our legal system. 
IAN: What? 
TARRON: I mean that you are already guilty of this crime. The burden of defence is entirely yours. You must prove without any shadow of doubt that you are innocent, otherwise 
IAN: Otherwise? 
TARRON: You will die. If you will take my advice, you will find someone to speak for you at the tribunal. Do you know any body in the city? 
IAN: Yes, I do know someone, if I can find him. 
TARRON: Who is he? 
IAN: Who? He's a doctor.

[Reception desk]

CLERK: Permission has been granted for you to attend the court proceedings. 
BARBARA: Thank you. 
CLERK: But I'm to tell you there must be no disturbances of any kind. The laws are very rigid. Offenders can be sent for one year to the glass factories in the desert, instantly and without trial. 
BARBARA: I understand. 
CLERK: Chief Enquirer Tarron has arranged for you to speak to your friend, but you do understand that you mustn't give him any packets or articles not previously examined by me, yes? Good. 
(Barbara goes to sit with Altos, as Sabetha and Susan enter) 
BARBARA: Any news? 
SUSAN: No, not a sign of him anywhere. 
SABETHA: Several people saw him only two days ago. 
ALTOS: Was that before or after Ian was arrested. 
SUSAN: Well, after, as far as we can work it out. 
ALTOS: I haven't been able to find out anything about my friend Eprin either. 
BARBARA: Well, we've got permission to see Ian, anyway. 
SUSAN: Oh, good. Couldn't we make a dash for it? 
BARBARA: No, it's too dangerous. 
(Ian and Tarron enter) 
BARBARA: How are you? 
IAN: They're treating me well enough. Have you found the Doctor yet? 
BARBARA: No. There isn't a sight or sound of him anywhere. 
IAN: We must find him, Barbara. We must. The laws in this country are a mockery. 
DOCTOR: I quite agree with you, my boy. 
IAN: Doctor! 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
BARBARA: How did you get here? ALTOS: We looked everywhere. 
SUSAN: I'm just glad we're back together again. 
DOCTOR: Yes, so am I, dear child. So am I. However, we have some important work to attend to. Excuse me. Chesterton, you and I must have a talk. 
IAN: We haven't much time for a talk, Doctor. In a moment I've got to go in there and face an accusation of murder. I need a man to defend me. 
DOCTOR: I am that man.

[Courtroom]

(The three judges take their places on the bench) 
JUDGE: Our decision on the report of Chief Enquirer Tarron is that the prisoner, Ian Chesterton, is guilty of murder and that his sentence is death. The said sentence to be administered three days after the end of this hearing, unless the representative for the accused can show positive proof why the execution should not be carried out. Will you stand up? 
(The Doctor stands) 
JUDGE: Representative for the defence, you have a grave duty. You have offered your services in this matter, which complies with the law of the city of Millenius, in that any person may speak on behalf of another. Are you acquainted with our laws? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I have studied some, my Lord. 
JUDGE: Every latitude will be allowed to you, and if you are at fault, I will give you directions. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
JUDGE: The representative of the court, Eyesen, has spoken his facts. You may now reply. 
DOCTOR: My Lords, I cannot defend a man when I have not considered every aspect of the case. I must have time to examine witnesses, read statements and to prepare my case. 
EYESEN: I object most strongly. 
JUDGE: The demand is reasonable in itself. The crime of murder in Millenius is in itself unusual. Then I grant you two days. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, my Lord. 
(The court rises) 
EYESEN: I congratulate you. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
EYESEN: It will not alter the outcome. 
DOCTOR: We shall see. 
IAN: Well done, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: I've been starting and studying their laws ever since I heard that Eprin had been murdered. 
ALTOS: Eprin? 
IAN: He was your friend? 
ALTOS: Yes. You found him, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I had met him and arranged to take the micro-key, but something must have happened. That's why he tried to take the key earlier than we'd arranged. 
SABETHA: And he was killed? 
DOCTOR: Yes. He must have told his plans to someone else and that someone else killed him and took the key. 
IAN: Then all we have to do is find out who took the key and why. 
ALTOS: In two days. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we shall need every minute of that. Now, we must all take a task on. Murder, I gather, is very rare here. Now, I want both of you to go to the library and find out all the case histories you can. Facts and figures. 
ALTOS: Sentences. 
SABETHA: And reasons for people being found not guilty. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, quite. Now, off you go, both of you, and meet me back here in three hours. 
ALTOS: Right. 
(Altos and Sabetha leave) 
SUSAN: What can I do, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Well, you, my child, and Barbara, can be my detectives. And you, my friend. 
IAN: Yes. What can I do, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Trust me.

[Vault]

TARRON: There was a mace beside the body, and there was blood on it. Chesterton was on the floor, unconscious. Either he slipped and bumped his head, or Eprin had got a blow in before he died. 
BARBARA: And the key was gone, you say. 
TARRON: Yes, and that's the only element of the case I don't understand. My men did a heat reflector search of this room. It is absolutely certain that the micro-key isn't in here. It is equally certain that it's not been taken from here. 
DOCTOR: Oh, come now, Tarron. We're not dealing in magic, you know. It's obvious to me the key must have been taken from this room. 
TARRON: No. every person that came in here was checked by the autho-ray scanner as they went out. If anyone had the key on them, the scanner would have detected it. 
SUSAN: Supposing the murderer hid the key on the body? 
TARRON: The body was searched. It wasn't there. 
DOCTOR: Then would you mind telling us what happened after the alarm bell went, please? 
TARRON: Well, the relief guard was the first to reach the outside of the door. He was joined almost immediately by the Controller and a Guardian who was on patrol outside. When I reached the door, it was opened and, well, you know what we found inside. 
SUSAN: That's fantastic. It couldn't disappear into thin air. 
DOCTOR: Precisely, and I rather gather when we discover its location we shall also discover the real identity of the murderer. 
TARRON: But we know the murderer. It was Chesterton. 
DOCTOR: Mister Tarron, I wonder if you'd mind leaving us alone for a few moments. We'd like to discuss the aspects of this case. 
TARRON: Very well. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
(Tarron leaves) 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, hmm. 
BARBARA: Any ideas? Well? 
DOCTOR: What? 
BARBARA: Have you any ideas how the key got out of here? 
DOCTOR: Oh, well, elementary, elementary. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, do you mean you know? How? Where? 
DOCTOR: All in good time, my child. The important is I believe I know who did the killing. 
BARBARA: But how? Tarron's been working on it all day. You've only been here a few minutes. 
DOCTOR: You see, Tarron never doubted that Chesterton was guilty. A grave error. Yes, a very grave error. 
SUSAN: Yes, where as we know he's innocent. 
DOCTOR: Precisely. But someone did it, and we also know there was a third man in the room. How he got in here we shall know in a moment. Now let us assume he was hiding. Yes. Behind this door. Now, Barbara, you imagine that you are Chesterton for a moment. Come here. Now please, you look into the room, you see a body on the floor. What do you do? 
BARBARA: I'd see if I could help. 
SUSAN: I'll be the body. 
DOCTOR: Good. Right, now let me see you do it. There's a weapon beside the body. Do you examine it? 
BARBARA: Yes, yes, I think I would. 
DOCTOR: Good. Then you look up in front of you and you see exactly what you came here for, the micro-key. Unbeknown to you, the third man comes out of hiding, creeps up behind you, and you are struck down, so. Now, he could take what he came here for. He opens the case, lifts the key, the alarm bell sounds. Now, he only has a few seconds so he conceals the key, runs to the door, opens it, gets out and then closes it. But he can't go any further because already the security guards and officials are on their way. So he decides to pretend that he is first on the scene! 
SUSAN: The relief guard! 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: Yes, of course. That's why the guard inside let him in in the first place. He knew him. He even expected him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, he went in, killed his colleague, heard Chesterton in the hall, hid behind the door and the rest we know. 
SUSAN: That must be how it happened. I'll go and tell Tarron. 
DOCTOR: My dear child, this is only a theory. We must have proof. 
BARBARA: But surely, if you know where the key is, that's proof. 
DOCTOR: If Tarron were to know that now, his case against Chesterton would be complete. I can't prove at this very moment that Chesterton didn't hide in its present location. 
BARBARA: Oh. What do we do, then? 
DOCTOR: I have a little errand for you, and I think you will find it very, very interesting.

[Ayden's home]

KALA: Oh. Please come in. 
BARBARA: Thank you. 
KALA: I'm afraid my husband isn't here at the moment. Do sit down. 
BARBARA: I did want to talk to your husband. I thought there might be some facts he'd overlooked. 
KALA: I'm sure he'd want to help, but he's already told you everything he knows. 
BARBARA: Well, there might be some small thing, something he thought unimportant. 
KALA: The Guardians are very thorough, you know. Anyway, he'd want the murderer to be caught. Eprin was a good friend of his. He wouldn't conceal anything. 
BARBARA: No, of course not. Tell me, why would anyone want to steal the micro-key? 
KALA: Because there are only five of them in the entire universe. It was brought to the city years ago by a man called Arbitan. It was the sworn duty of the Elders to protect it. 
SUSAN: So they'd pay highly to recover it. 
KALA: Yes, but you know all this. Why else would your friend steal it? 
AYDEN: I had to go to the Guardian building again. They're asking questions about 
(He sees Barbara and Susan sitting on the settee) 
AYDEN: You're one of the people with Chesterton. What are you doing here? 
BARBARA: I want to talk to you. 
AYDEN: I have nothing to say to you. Get out. 
KALA: Ayden. 
AYDEN: I don't want people prying into my affairs. Has she been asking questions about me? 
SUSAN: Not as many as my Grandfather will ask when he calls you as a witness. 
AYDEN: Get out! You heard me, get out! 
SUSAN: I thought you might like to know that we know where the key is hidden. 
BARBARA: Susan! 
AYDEN: But you couldn't know where it is. I. Yes, yes, you know where it's hidden because Chesterton told you where he hid it. And now you're trying to throw suspicion on me. Well it won't work. Now get out before I 
BARBARA: Before you what? 
SUSAN: Kill us like you killed Eprin? 
(He raises his hand to hit Susan, but stops himself. 
KALA: You'd better go.

[Corridor]

(Barbara and Susan eavesdrop) 
AYDEN [OC]: What were they doing here? 
KALA [OC]: Asking a few questions, nothing more. 
AYDEN [OC]: What did she mean about the key? KALA [OC]: I don't know what she meant, but you shouldn't have lost your temper like that. It was very foolish of you. 
AYDEN [OC]: Don't you talk to me like that. 
(It sounds like he has hit Kala very hard. Barbara tries to look through the keyhole as Ayden makes a telephonic communication. Then there are footsteps and they have to leave)

[Ayden's home]

EYESEN [OC]: Eyesen here.

[Guardian HQ]

EYESEN: Don't say any more, there are people near. I'll take it on the personal. All right, go ahead. (pause) You really think she knows something? (pause) You mean that our young friend might not be able to go through with it? (pause) Well listen carefully, and I'll tell you what you may have to do.

[Courtroom]

EYESEN: This mace, a weapon used in primitive times by vicious, savage, warmakers. The same savagery that wielded it then lives on in men like the accused. Members of the tribunal, the evidence already offered is more than enough to ensure the conviction of this man. But add to it the fact that under psychometric examination this mace was found to have been held in the right hand of the prisoner. I need say no more. That concludes the evidence for the prosecution. 
JUDGE: We will now hear the statement from the representative of the accused and convicted. 
DOCTOR: My Lords, let me begin by saying that the murderer is without any doubt in this chamber. The trouble is, he's not under arrest, but my young friend here is. 
JUDGE: But, can you substantiate this? 
DOCTOR: I can, my Lord. You will know his identity in a moment. I will now call my first witness. Thank you. 
(Sabetha gets up. The Doctor holds up a picture of a micro-key) 
DOCTOR: This, my Lords, is a reproduction of the stolen micro-key. Do you recognise this, young lady? 
SABETHA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: And do you know where it is now? 
SABETHA: Yes, I do. 
DOCTOR: Then please tell the tribunal where its present location is. 
SABETHA: It is here. 
(And she holds up a micro-key, to general consternation) 
DOCTOR: Where did you get it? 
SABETHA: It was given to me by the man who killed the guard. 
DOCTOR: Is he here? 
SABETHA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Then please point him out to us. 
SABETHA: There, sitting in the front row. 
AYSEN: But she can't have found it. I 
(He tries to make a run for it, but Barbara and Susan grab him)
AYSEN: All right, I'll tell you everything. I'm not in this alone. They made me do it. I'll tell you 
(There's a flash of light and he falls to the floor, dead. There's a stunned silence, then Kala drops to her knees next to him, sobbing)
(Later, when the courtroom has been tidied up again) 
DOCTOR: And so you see, my Lords, when Sabetha was showing the court the micro-key, it wasn't in actual fact the one that was stolen from the vault. 
JUDGE: You say you have three of the micro-keys in your possession? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my Lord, and we returned to find the last one. Then they would all be returned to Arbitan. 
JUDGE: The fact remains that the fourth key is missing. 
EYESEN: Still in the place where it was hidden by the murderer Chesterton. 
DOCTOR: Oh, come now. Surely you don't think that he's still guilty? I admit that I resorted to a subterfuge when Sabetha accused Ayden of taking the key, but I think the results justifies the means. 
JUDGE: There are a number of other points which we'd like to see cleared up. 
DOCTOR: Yes, my Lord. 
JUDGE: First of all. 
(We switch to another part of the courtroom) 
TARRON: Yes, and I'm having psychometric tests made on the weapon that killed Ayden. 
IAN: What exactly are these psychometric tests? 
TARRON: Its the science psychometry. Experts are able to divine from an object the characteristics of the person who last had contact with that object. 
BARBARA: Well that sounds an improvement on fingerprints. 
TARRON: Fingerprints? 
BARBARA: It's not important. 
IAN: Whoever killed Ayden must have been implicated in the theft. Had he lived, he might have told us everything. 
BARBARA: It was his wife I felt sorry for. 
TARRON: The doctors have given her oblivative drugs and sent her home to rest. She was hysterical. You'd better resume your places, the tribunal is about to start again. 
ALTOS: Where's Susan? 
BARBARA: She's gone to get Ian's statement. 
JUDGE: It is clear that Aydon was involved in either the theft or the killing. It is also clear that he had an accomplice. Bearing in mind that the accused came here with the express purpose of recovering the micro-key, and remembering the evidence against him, his guilt becomes even more obvious. Will the prosecutor please summarise. 
EYESEN: Despite the dramatics and hysterics of recent events, very little has changed. I submit that the accused did, by threat or coercion, involve Ayden in the murder and robbery. His last dying words were, they made me do it. They were the accused and his accomplices. They were standing near him when he was killed. One of them is responsible for his death. 
(During this speech, a Guardian has whispered to Barbara, and she, Altos and Sabetha have got up and left) 
EYESEN: I submit that the defence has offered no new evidence, and the sentence of the tribunal should be carried out. 
JUDGE: The tribunal concurs. Though it has deprived us of more detailed evidence, the unfortunate death of Guardian Ayden has surely not affected the issue. We will now hear a statement, a closing statement, from the defence. 
DOCTOR: I beg the indulgence of the tribunal, and ask for time to produce new evidence. 
JUDGE: Denied. No purpose would be served in delaying these proceedings further. If you have nothing to add, the accused will be taken from here and executed in the prescribed manner.

[Reception area]

BARBARA: What is it? 
CLERK: A messenger brought this for you. 
BARBARA: Thank you. 
CLERK: I have to get back inside. Will you excuse me? 
SABETHA: What is it? 
BARBARA: It says, there will be another death if you disclose where the key is hidden. 
ALTOS: What? Barbara, do you realise what this means? It proves that someone else was involved. We must tell Tarron and the Doctor, quickly. 
BARBARA: Yes, but what does it mean, another death? Whose death? 
(the 'telephone' rings) 
CLERK: Someone wishes to speak to you. 
BARBARA: Hello? 
SUSAN [OC]: I want to speak to Barbara Wright. 
BARBARA: Susan? 
SUSAN [OC]: Barbara, they made me call you. 
BARBARA: Who, Susan? Who? 
SUSAN [OC]: Barbara, listen 
BARBARA: Susan? Susan? Are you there, Susan! 
SUSAN [OC]: They're going to kill me. 
BARBARA: Susan? 
SABETHA: We must tell Tarron. 
BARBARA: No. 
SABETHA: Well, what else can we do? We've got to find her. 
BARBARA: Yes, of course we have, but 
ALTOS: You're thinking of the Doctor. 
BARBARA: He mustn't know anything about this. He must keep his mind absolutely clear in order to concentrate on Ian. Anyway, how do we know that Tarron isn't implicated? Who'd suspect the Chief Investigator? He was next to Ayden in court when he was killed. 
SABETHA: What do we do, Barbara? 
BARBARA: We find Susan ourselves. 
ALTOS: And remember, whoever is behind this kidnapping is either in league with the murderer, or is the murderer. 
BARBARA: Trouble is, where to begin? Best thing we can do is to go over everything that's happened to us since we landed in Millenius. There's a link somewhere, and it's probably the one and only way to save Ian.

[Cell]

IAN: How much longer? 
CLERK: Execution is set to take place when the pointer reaches the star. 
(forty minutes, if it was an Earth clock) 
IAN: Will I be allowed to see my friends? 
(a sad shake of the head)

[Reception area]

BARBARA: I've got it. I've got it! 
ALTOS: What is it? 
BARBARA: Well, it's a start, anyway. 
ALTOS: Go on. 
BARBARA: Ayden is the only one we know for certain was connected with the crime. He knew all the others, though. That's probably why he was killed. 
SABETHA: I don't see how that helps. 
ALTOS: Well, they must have been in contact when they were planning the robbery. It's just possible that his wife, Kala, might know someone that he was seeing quite frequently. 
SABETHA: But if she did, do you think she'd tell us? 
ALTOS: Well of course she would. She'd be as eager as we are to find the man that murdered her husband. 
SABETHA: I'm not so sure. 
BARBARA: It's a chance. Come on. It's a chance.

[Ayden's home]

KALA: You. 
BARBARA: I'm terribly sorry to disturb you. We know what a terrible ordeal you've been through, but we think you might be able to help us. 
KALA: I don't think so. I know nothing. 
BARBARA: Oh, please. May we come in? 
KALA: If you must. 
BARBARA: Thank you. The people who murdered your husband have kidnapped Susan, the young girl who was with us. 
ALTOS: They've threatened to kill her too. We thought it was possible that you might know someone your husband was seeing quite frequently. 
KALA: I know of no one. My husband was very secretive. He never told me who he saw or where he went. Now, please, Ayden is dead. If he committed a crime, he's paid for it. He's dead, but I'll have to live with the memory of his crime for the rest of my life. 
BARBARA: I'm sorry, but you see, you're our only help. 
KALA: Leave me alone. Leave me alone. I do understand and I sympathise with you. You must have been sick with worry since you spoke to Susan, but I just can't help you. I know nothing. 
BARBARA: I'm sorry. 
ALTOS: Come on. 
BARBARA: Please understand, we had to try. Goodbye. 
(Once they have left, Kala stops crying and starts laughing, then opens a sliding door) 
KALA: Your friends were here looking for you. No, don't look hopeful. They've gone. They won't be back. They're like all the rest of them. Stupid. Stupid. 
(She answers the telephone) 
KALA: Yes? 
EYESEN [OC]: The trial has just ended. Chesterton is to be executed at the beginning of the next zenith. 
KALA: Good. The old man didn't say where the key was hidden? 
EYESEN [OC]: No. I'm certain he doesn't know. I'll get it later then come for you. Be ready. 
KALA: I will. What about the child? 
EYESEN [OC]: She's no more use now, and she can identify you. Kill her.

Episode Six - The Keys of Marinus

[Corridor]

ALTOS: We cannot delay telling the Doctor now. 
BARBARA: Oh, we should have told him long ago. Sabetha, you were right. If anything's happened to Susan, I'll never forgive myself. 
SABETHA: It was a terrible choice. She sounded so afraid. 
(The penny drops for Barbara) 
SABETHA: What is it? 
BARBARA: What you just said. Kala couldn't have known. 
ALTOS: Known? Known what? What are you talking about? 
BARBARA: Kala said, you must have been sick with worry since you spoke to Susan. Well how did she know we'd spoken to Susan? We've told no one. 
ALTOS: Then Kala must have been with Susan when she telephoned. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
ALTOS: Come on, we're going back.

[Aysen's home]

(Kala takes a weapon from a drawer and goes over to Susan's prison) 
KALA: Seems a pity, really. The old man didn't know where the key was hidden after all. 
(She has no idea that Altos, Barbara and Sabetha are right behind her) 
KALA: Let me go! Let go of me! Let me go. 
ALTOS: Don't struggle. 
(Barbara unties Susan) 
BARBARA: There. 
SUSAN: Oh, Barbara!

[Reception area]

(The Doctor is sitting, disconsolate) 
EYESEN: Don't take it too hard. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh, it's you. 
EYESEN: I just wanted to say what a good job you did on the defence. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and you did an even better job for the prosecution, my man. 
EYESEN: I am sorry we couldn't have met under happier circumstances. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
EYESEN: Goodbye. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye. 
CLERK: Oh, excuse me. The exhibits and documents. Where do you want them? 
EYESEN: In the cupboard, please. Well, I don't think there's anything else. Goodbye. 
TARRON: Goodbye, sir. 
(The mace and papers are locked away) 
TARRON: It's time to leave, sir. 
DOCTOR: Leave? I can't leave now. I must find new evidence and re-open the case. 
(The telephone rings) 
CLERK: Yes? 
BARBARA [OC]: I'd like to speak to Interrogator Tarron. 
TARRON: This is Tarron. 
BARBARA [OC]: This is Barbara Wright. Have you had the results yet on the gun that killed Ayden? 
TARRON: No, not yet. 
BARBARA [OC]: Well just to save time I'll tell you what they say. Ayden was killed by his wife, Kala. 
TARRON: What? 
BARBARA [OC]: I'm with her now. Why don't you come and get her? 
TARRON: Come on. 
(Later) 
BARBARA: So we realised Kala couldn't have known we'd talked to Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes, then the three of them crept up behind her and pow! 
BARBARA: Shouldn't have taken the chance, though. I had no right to risk Susan's life. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps not, perhaps not. However, child, you're safe and well. I wish I could say the same thing about Chesterton. 
ALTOS: But surely they'll stop the execution now that Kala's confessed. 
DOCTOR: I hope so. I sincerely hope so. Well? Well! 
TARRON: Kala's made a full statement. She's named her accomplice. 
DOCTOR: Ah. Then you can stay the execution. 
TARRON: No, I can't. Kala's sworn testimony states that the man she was working with was Ian Chesterton. 
DOCTOR: Impossible! 
BARBARA: But she's lying. 
TARRON: Yes, I have doubts myself. She's a vicious, dangerous woman, but just doubts aren't enough to ask for a stay of execution. They'd need positive proof. 
SUSAN: What about that man who called on the phone thing? I heard him tell her to kill me. 
TARRON: Did you recognise the voice? 
SUSAN: No. 
DOCTOR: What else did he say? 
SUSAN: Oh, nothing much. Just that he'd collect the key later and then pick her up. 
DOCTOR: Collect the key. Ah, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! Yes, yes. You understand? The villain that planned all this, the one who planned this whole affair, is now planning to collect the key! What a wonderful opportunity it gives us to catch him red-handed. And to release Chesterton! 
(later, the room is dark as a figure enters and unlocks the cupboard. It removes the mace and is immediately pounced on by two Guardians who were hiding behind the desk. The Doctor turns on the lights and removes his hood) 
DOCTOR: You! 
TARRON: Call the prison. 
(Later, Eyesen has been taken away and Ian released. The Doctor opens the mace to reveal) 
SUSAN: The key! 
IAN: How did you know it was there, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: It had to be. I knew it all along. Until we knew the culprit, the information was no good. 
TARRON: Everyone and everything that went in and out of that vault was checked. Everything except this mace. 
BARBARA: Have you any idea why they did it? 
TARRON: Oh, yes, they've owned up to everything. Kala and the Prosecutor had planned to steal the key and sell it, and Chesterton here just happened to walk right into the middle of it. They made him look so guilty I never doubted for a moment he was the one. 
DOCTOR: You should read Pyrrho, my boy. He founded Scepticism. A great asset to your business. 
IAN: Thank heaven you remembered reading Pyrrho, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Reading? What are you talking about? I met the man. 
SUSAN: Whoopee! Now we can go and join Altos and Sabetha. 
IAN: What, have you sent them on ahead, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: There was no point in keeping them here, so I thought it might cheer Arbitan up to know that we'd been successful. 
BARBARA: Yes, well, it'll be lovely for him to see his daughter again. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
(chat continues in background) 
CLERK: The senior judge has just written this. 
DOCTOR: Ah, is that the authorisation? 
TARRON: You've just got permission to take the key, sir. 
DOCTOR: All we need now is the wrist strap you impounded from Chesterton. 
IAN: Ah. Thank you. 
CLERK: I see you're all wearing them. What are they for? 
DOCTOR: Our means of travel. 
IAN: They do look a bit odd, but they work. They give us movement through space. 
TARRON: I don't believe it. 
DOCTOR: Show him. 
IAN: All right. Now. 
SUSAN: Ready? 
BARBARA: Steady. 
IAN: Go. 
DOCTOR: Well, one of them might have waited for me. However, I suppose I'd better join them. 
CLERK: I don't understand. Where have they gone? 
DOCTOR: Goodbye, my friends. 
CLERK: He's gone too. 
TARRON: Yes. He told us what was going to happen and we saw it. But nobody else has seen it. We'd be better off keeping this story to ourselves. 
CLERK: How are you going to complete the report, Tarron? 
TARRON: I shall say that they left. They left to take the key back to its inventor, Arbitan.

[Control room]

(Altos is being interrogated by the head frogman, who is wearing Arbitan's robe) 
YARTEK: Arbitan is dead. Do you hear me? I, Yartek, am in control now. 
ALTOS: What have you done with Sabetha? 
YARTEK: Where is the final key? 
ALTOS: I don't know. 
YARTEK: Why are you so stubborn? What purpose does it serve? I'm going to find out in the end. 
ALTOS: What have you done to Sabetha? 
(Sabetha is brought in)
ALTOS: Sabetha! 
SABETHA: Why have you tied him up? He's of no use to you. 
YARTEK: Oh? 
SABETHA: He's just a servant. He knows nothing, I tell you. 
YARTEK: He means nothing to you? 
SABETHA: I have no thoughts about him at all. I told you, he's just one of my servants. Let him go. 
ALTOS: Sabetha. 
SABETHA: Be quiet! I did not give you permission to speak. I tell you he knows nothing. 
YARTEK: In that case, as you think so little of him, as I gather from the way you treat him, it doesn't matter what happens to him. 
SABETHA: Of course not. Send him away. 
YARTEK: Yes, I can do that. Or I can have him killed. After all, he's only a servant. Kill him! 
SABETHA: No! 
YARTEK: Useless lies! Where is the final key? 
SABETHA: I'll never tell you. Never. 
YARTEK: But this man is no servant. He travelled with you. He is in love with you. I think he will tell me. 
SABETHA: The man who loves me cannot betray me. 
YARTEK: The man who loves you cannot condemn you to death. I can promise you one thing. If you do not tell me where the final key is, I shall order my creatures to kill her. 
ALTOS: The man who was with us, the Doctor, he has it.

[Corridor]

(The Doctor encounters Ian and the others at a corner, and they startle each other) 
DOCTOR: What on earth are you doing, dear boy? You frightened the life out of me. 
IAN: Doctor, I'm sorry. 
SUSAN: Is the Tardis all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, the forcefield's been lifted, and I peered in for a moment or two. Now, everything appears to be all right. 
BARBARA: Arbitan kept his promise, then. He said he'd remove the forcefield. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, come along, come along. You're all running around here like a lot of scared chickens. 
IAN: We were waiting for you. 
DOCTOR: I'm here! My dear Chesterton, sometimes you drive me round the bend. I don't know 
SUSAN: Grandfather. 
(The Doctor and Susan go on ahead) 
IAN: Even so, it's a bit odd. 
BARBARA: You mean Sabetha not being here to meet us? 
IAN: Or Altos. We'd better keep our eyes open.

[Control room]

VOORD: I have put them in the cell, as ordered. 
YARTEK: Keep well out of sight then now, but be within call. 
(Yartek puts his four micro-keys into the Conscience machine) 
YARTEK: One more. Just one more.

[Corridor]

(Suspicious, Ian lures out a waiting Voord at a junction, and the Doctor knocks him out with his walking stick) 
IAN: Well done, Doctor. I was afraid of this. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I think it's time now to go back to the ship. 
BARBARA: What about Sabetha and Altos? 
SUSAN: Yes. They may be hiding somewhere. 
IAN: Yes. Right. We split up. Susan, you come with me. We'll go in search of Arbitan. Doctor, you and Barbara see if you can find Sabetha and Altos. Give me the key. 
DOCTOR: Here, and don't part with it until you're absolutely sure it goes into the right hands. 
IAN: Don't worry, I won't. Come on, Susan. 
DOCTOR: And you accompany me, my dear, will you? 
BARBARA: Yes, all right. Look, I think we'll take this with us. 
(She picks up the Voord's dagger) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
BARBARA: Just in case.

[Cell]

(Altos and Sabetha are tied up back to back) 
SABETHA: It's no use. Even if we manage to untie ourselves, we'll never break the gates down. 
ALTOS: At least I could defend you. I can't even do that. 
SABETHA: At least you're with me, Altos. 
ALTOS: I'll never leave you.

[Control room]

(Yartek has put up the hood of the robe to conceal his rubber head. Ian and Susan enter, and he quickly turns his head away, just in case. 
SUSAN: Arbitan! 
IAN: Thank heaven. We were afraid 
YARTEK: Have you brought the key? 
IAN: Where's Sabetha? 
YARTEK: Where is the old man? He is the one who has the key. 
SUSAN: I don't understand you. We've done all these things for you and all you can think about is the key. 
YARTEK: Forgive me. The key has filled my mind for so long I've become insensitive to anything else. Sabetha is safe and well. 
IAN: Do you realise that the full 
YARTEK: Stop! Don't come near me. Power from my machine escaped. I am suffering from a deadly disease. 
SUSAN: Cam we do anything to help? 
YARTEK: Sabetha alone knows the cure. 
IAN: Where is Altos? 
YARTEK: The young man, who attached himself to her while she was away. Is he a good man? Is he sincere in his feelings for her? 
IAN: What is your impression of him? 
YARTEK: There are many races of men on Marinus. He looks and sounds well enough, but I don't know. 
IAN: Naturally, we like and admire him, but since you don't know him you must make up your own mind. 
YARTEK: I agree, of course. But the key, the final key. Do you have it? 
IAN: Yes. 
SUSAN: Ian. 
IAN: I have it here. 
YARTEK: Throw it down. Good! Now bring the old man to me. Sabetha will be here, and we can enjoy our triumph together. 
IAN: All right, I will. 
(Ian and Susan leave. Yartek pushes back the hood and picks up the micro-key) 
VOORD: Shall I follow and destroy them? 
YARTEK: No. The machine will enslave them now. Bring Sabetha and the young man to me. I want them here when the final key is inserted and my power is absolute.

[Corridor]

SUSAN: Ian, that man couldn't have been Arbitan. 
IAN: No. I thought Arbitan sent Altos for the keys. This man said he was a stranger. He never looked at us. I think there was something funny going on there. 
SUSAN: But then why give him the key? 
BARBARA: Ian!

[Cell]

(The Doctor is untying Sabetha and Altos) 
DOCTOR: So when Yartek gets the final key, his power will be absolute. 
ALTOS: Yes, with the aid of the machine he could control us all. 
DOCTOR: And our impulse to leave this planet would be destroyed. 
SABETHA: That is true. 
SUSAN: Altos, Sabetha. 
(happy greetings all round) 
DOCTOR: You heard about Arbitan? 
IAN: Yes. We met the man who's usurped his place. 
DOCTOR: Give me the key. We must have it destroyed. 
SUSAN: Ian gave it to him. 
DOCTOR: What! You gave it away? 
IAN: I gave him a key. Sabetha, you remember that fake key? Barbara found it on the idol. 
BARBARA: I remember. 
IAN: That was the key I gave him. This is the genuine key. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy! 
SABETHA: We must go quickly. Leave the building. 
IAN: Why? 
ALTOS: Yartek may put that false key into the machine at any moment. If he does, it will set the machine in motion, but once it feels the full force of the power, it'll break under the strain. 
IAN: You mean the machine'll blow up? 
ALTOS: Yes. 
DOCTOR: There's not a moment to loose. Come on! 
ALTOS: And everything in this building with it. 
DOCTOR: To the moving wall!

[Outer wall]

DOCTOR: About where you are, Susan. 
IAN: What do you mean, about? Don't you know exactly? 
DOCTOR: Somewhere here. Somewhere here. There's a small stone. It moved under my hand. 
IAN: Yes. 
(there's a Voord behind them)

[Control room]

YARTEK: Why haven't you obeyed my commands? Where's Sabetha? 
VOORD: The others have set them free. They're in the corridor near the cell. 
YARTEK: She will have told them of her father's death, of course, but it doesn't matter. The machine's power will spread through the planet. There is no escape now except for us. I will bring them back with this. 
(Yartek puts the fifth micro-key into the machine and it blows up. The travellers find the door out of the building just as it starts to fall down.

[Outside the Tardis]

SUSAN: Everything all right, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my child. Chase the others up, will you? 
SUSAN: Right. (leaves) 
DOCTOR: I'm glad to have this moment alone with you, Sabetha. I want to speak of your father. You know, he was a very wise and brilliant man, and I know how you felt when you learned of his death. 
SABETHA: His life's work destroyed. 
DOCTOR: No, no, I wouldn't say that. His work will go on, only not quite in the same way. But I don't believe that man was made to be controlled by machines. Machines can make laws, but they cannot preserve justice. Only human beings can do that. Now I only hope that you'll carry on his good work, please. Goodbye. Bless you, my child. 
(The Doctor enters the Tardis) 
SUSAN: What are you going to do now? 
ALTOS: We might well return to the city of Millenius. 
SABETHA: We still have our travel dials. It's a good place to start. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Susan! 
SUSAN: We've got to go now. Bye, Sabetha. 
SABETHA: Goodbye, Susan. 
SUSAN: Goodbye, Altos. 
ALTOS: Goodbye, Susan. 
(Susan enters the Tardis) 
IAN: What shall I do with this key? The one I didn't give to Yartek. 
ALTOS: Why don't you give it to the Doctor. 
BARBARA: That's a good idea. 
IAN: All right, I will. 
ALTOS: Goodbye, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Goodbye, Altos. 
SABETHA: We shall think of you often. 
ALTOS: Ian. 
IAN: Goodbye, Altos. Goodbye, Sabetha. 
(Ian enters the Tardis) 
BARBARA: Take care, Altos. 
ALTOS: You may depend on that. 
BARBARA: Oh dear, I shall miss them. 
IAN: Come on, Barbara. 
(The Tardis dematerialises, and on its way to their next adventure)

[Tomb]

(The Tardis has landed inside a tomb chamber. There is a table upon which a corpse is laid out in all his jeweled finery) 
BARBARA: Look at that. 
SUSAN: I am. 
BARBARA: It's an Aztec mask. He must have been a priest. 
SUSAN: Well, the Aztecs were Mexicans. We must be on Earth again. I wonder what year it is. 
BARBARA: He must have died around 1430, I should think. 
SUSAN: How do you know that? 
BARBARA: All these things belong to the Aztec's early period. 
SUSAN: That's what I call really knowing your subject. 
BARBARA: Ah, well, that was one of my specialties, Susan. 
(She puts on an arm band) 
SUSAN: The little I know about them doesn't impress me. Cutting out people's hearts. 
BARBARA: Oh, that was only one side to their nature. The other side was highly civilised. 
SUSAN: The Spanish didn't think so. 
BARBARA: They only saw the acts of sacrifice. That was the tragedy of the Aztecs. The whole civilisation was completely destroyed, the good as well as the evil. 
SUSAN: Cortes landed in 1520, didn't he? Hey, look, cartoons! They've got bubbles coming out of their mouths. Oh, hey, Barbara, look! 
(The section of wall with the painting on it hinges horizontally at head height, and is opening)

[Temple]

SUSAN [OC]: Don't go too far. 
BARBARA: It's all right, there's no one here. 
SUSAN [OC]: I think I'll get the others. 
(The door swings closed again) 
BARBARA: It's perfect. 
AUTLOC: Woman, how came you here? The temple is sacred to the memory of the High Priest Yetaxa. You trespass and must be punished. Warriors! 
(Four burly men grab Barbara, then the priest sees the arm band she's wearing)

[Tomb]

DOCTOR: I don't care if she is interested in them, I told her repeatedly not to go off on her own. 
SUSAN: The door! It's closed. 
IAN: (in normal shirt and trousers this time) Now where is this door, Susan? 
SUSAN: Here. Ah. 
(It swings open again for her)

[Temple]

IAN: Barbara? Barbara? No sign of her. 
SUSAN: She was here just now.

[Platform]

(They walk out onto the open sacrifice platform) 
IAN: Doctor, look at this extraordinary city down here. 
DOCTOR: The Aztecs. They knew how to build. 
IAN: We must be pretty high up here. Place seems absolutely deserted. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I hope you're right. These Aztecs had some rather gruesome habits. I should hate to be carved up on that by some Aztec high priest. 
IAN: The door! 
DOCTOR: Quickly!

[Temple]

(But the door has shut again) 
IAN: There's nothing to get a grip on. 
SUSAN: There must be some way of opening it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you push from the other side. These tombs were designed to prevent grave robbers, not to aid and abet them. 
AUTLOC: Autloc, High Priest of Knowledge, most humbly greets the servants of Yetaxa. 
DOCTOR: The servants of whom, sir? 
AUTLOC: Yetaxa, the High Priest. 
IAN: Where's Barbara? 
AUTLOC: Of whom do you speak? 
IAN: The woman who was here a moment ago. 
AUTLOC: In due time you shall meet again, but first grant us our courtesies. No evil exists in our hearts towards you. In fact, we honour you. 
DOCTOR: What is your name, sir? 
AUTLOC: Autloc. 
DOCTOR: And you are the High Priest? 
AUTLOC: As such I serve. 
DOCTOR: You know where we came from? 
AUTLOC: The tomb. 
DOCTOR: Tell me, is there a way through from this side? 
AUTLOC: The tomb is sealed. Go now with these attendants, and soon you shall meet the one who wears the bracelet of Yetaxa. 
DOCTOR: What's he talking about now? 
SUSAN: He must be talking about Barbara. She picked up a bracelet from the tomb. 
IAN: Well, perhaps we'd better go and meet her.

[Platform]

(Out on the platform, Susan recoils from a man with a painted face) 
SUSAN: Ugh! 
DOCTOR: You know who he is? 
IAN: The local butcher by the look of him. 
DOCTOR: Exactly. 
AUTLOC: You have seen her? 
TLOTOXL: (as Richard Crookback) A vision is with us, Autloc. When does it rain? 
AUTLOC: This day. When the sun's fire first touches the horizon to the west. 
TLOTOXL: At that moment shall I present her to the people. A vision is with us and shall stand before them. And I, in supplication to the Rain God, shall offer human blood. The rains will come. No more talk against us that the gods were against us and brought drought to the land. The rains will come and power shall again be ours. 
AUTLOC: I tell you the rains will come with or without sacrifice. 
TLOTOXL: Does the High Priest of Knowledge only worship him who has fallen, and not him who has made us strong? 
AUTLOC: I worship the same god as you. 
TLOTOXL: Then above all, honour him. He has made us rulers of the land. For this he demands blood. And he shall have it.

[Ante Chamber]

SUSAN: Well, they've treated us all right so far. 
DOCTOR: The Aztecs always showed the utmost courtesy towards their intended victims.

[Temple]

(There, in Aztec finery and sitting on a very uncomfortable looking stone throne is -) 
IAN: Barbara! 
BARBARA: Leave us. 
(The warriors all file out) 
DOCTOR: Good gracious. 
IAN: What on earth are you doing there? 
BARBARA: They think I'm a reincarnation of that priest in the tomb. I found this and put it on, and when the High Priest caught me I was still wearing it. 
SUSAN: So he thought you were a god? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
SUSAN: But the priest in the tomb's a man! How can you be a reincarnation of him? 
BARBARA: The form the spirit takes isn't important, Susan. This is what's important. 
IAN: Yes, that High Priest, what was his name? 
DOCTOR: Autloc. 
IAN: That's right, Orkloc. 
ALL: Autloc! 
IAN: Autloc. Well, he said we were the servants of Yetaxa. Is that who they think you are? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: And we're your servants? 
BARBARA: That's right. 
DOCTOR: Charming. 
BARBARA: Well, it's very useful for us, Doctor. It means we can go into the tomb any time we want to, get into the Tardis and leave. 
SUSAN: We can't. It only opens from the inside. 
DOCTOR: Reincarnations can come out, but human beings can't go in. 
IAN: We must find out how that door opens. 
DOCTOR: That's one thing you mustn't do. As Yetaxa, you're supposed to know everything. If the Aztecs decide you're not what you're supposed to be, then we shall all die. 
(Autloc and Tlotoxl enter and bow) 
TLOTOXL: Great spirit of Yetaxa, I, Tlotoxl, High Priest of Sacrifice, salute you. 
DOCTOR: As you said, Chesterton, the local butcher. 
BARBARA: I acknowledge the High Priest's greeting. 
AUTLOC: For many days the Rain God has looked away from us, and the land withers and the people groan. 
TLOTOXL: We have prayed that the land may again be bountiful. And this day we honour Tlaloc's name. 
AUTLOC: When the sun's fire first touches the horizon to the west, the people will stand before the temple in obedience to our commands. We humbly beg, Great Spirit, that at that time the people shall see you and know that their suffering draws to an end. 
DOCTOR: And Barbara will appear and down will come the rains. 
BARBARA: I shall do as the High Priest requests. 
AUTLOC: We also beseech you, Great Spirit, to permit your handmaiden and your servants to move freely among our people. 
DOCTOR: O, Great Spirit, grant us this our wish, that we may be your eyes and ears among the people to do our best and serve in all our interests. 
AUTLOC: The aged servant of Yetaxa speaks with wisdom. 
BARBARA: My handmaiden remains with me. The others may do as you wish. 
AUTLOC: We shall await you. 
(The two priests leave) 
DOCTOR: A wonderful performance, my dear. Congratulations. We now have everything we want, exactly. 
BARBARA: We do? 
DOCTOR: Yes. You and Susan here in safety, and Ian and I outside finding out about the tomb. 
IAN: Yes, it sounds all right, but I don't think we should take our eyes off those two for a second. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I shouldn't mind them. They're far too bust timing their miracle. 
SUSAN: What miracle? 
DOCTOR: Presenting Barbara to the public one second before it rains.

[Platform]

TLOTOXL: Autloc, who serves Yetaxa? 
AUTLOC: We do, as High Priests of the Temple. 
TLOTOXL: What purpose then serve the others? 
AUTLOC: Yetaxa 
TLOTOXL: Would it not be better if one led our force of arms? 
AUTLOC: The young man? 
TLOTOXL: A warrior favoured of the gods. 
AUTLOC: But Ixta is our chosen warrior. 
TLOTOXL: Let Ixta prove himself more worthy than the servant of Yetaxa. (to Ian) It has been decided. The old man may walk abroad. You shall train to command our army. 
DOCTOR: Surely that is for Yetaxa to decide? 
IAN: Yetaxa would not refuse so great an honour. I accept. 
TLOTOXL: Autloc, take the old man into the Garden of Peace, that he may sit in comfort. Come now and encounter Ixta. 
IAN: Who is he? 
TLOTOXL: Your rival to command.

[Warriors hall]

(There are shields and swords aplenty, as well as beautiful pottery jars. A man is practising swinging a short sword) 
TLOTOXL: Ixta! 
IXTA: I greet you, Tlotoxl. What manner of warrior is this? 
TLOTOXL: He is the servant of Yetaxa. 
IXTA: I had heard that Yetaxa again guides us in wisdom and in strength. Would the High Priest care for me to demonstrate my skill? 
TLOTOXL: (to Ian) To command, one must prove oneself in courage, skill, intelligence. Ixta has taken many prisoners on the battlefield. He has no fear of death. 
(Ixta summons a sparring partner, and they fight with wooden staves. Ixta's stave breaks and he grabs another weapon. Soon he disarms the other man. Still fired up, he smashes a shield with his weapon) 
TLOTOXL: So shall other tribes fear the Aztecs even more. 
IXTA: Tell Yetaxa that I shall serve well. 
TLOTOXL: I shall carry your salutation for you. He remains. 
IXTA: Here dwell only warriors chosen to command. 
TLOTOXL: I know it. 
IXTA: What name did your mother give you? 
IAN: Ian. 
IXTA: Then I tell you, Ian, six warriors dwelt here. Only I remain. There is no fear of you in me. Rather I welcome you. For one day all men shall fear Ixta, the Aztec commander who killed the chosen servant of Yetaxa. 
TLOTOXL: Let him be clothed according to his rank. 
IXTA: It shall be done. Is he to assist at the ceremony of the Rain God? 
TLOTOXL: Ian is as you are, a chosen warrior. 
(Tlotoxl leaves) 
IAN: What duties must I perform at this ceremony? 
IXTA: All honour rests with us. We shall deliver the human sacrifice to Tlotoxl.

[Garden of Peace]

DOCTOR: Why are all these people here? 
AUTLOC: It is our law that all who attain their fifty second year shall pleasurably pass the remainder of their lives free from responsibility and care. 
DOCTOR: Poor old souls, they must be bored to tears doing nothing. 
AUTLOC: We often seek the accumulated wisdom of their years. 
DOCTOR: What about? 
AUTLOC: All manner of things. Each person here has served the community in one way or another. He was a weaver of priestly garments, she was a woman of medicine. That man 
DOCTOR: And what about her? 
AUTLOC: Cameca? Of all those here, her advice is most sought after. 
DOCTOR: What did you say her name was? 
AUTLOC: Cameca. You will find her a companion of wit and interest. And now I beg permission to depart. 
DOCTOR: Of course.
(Autloc leaves, and the Doctor goes straight to Cameca) 
DOCTOR: In spite of the drought, there's plenty of water for the flowers. 
CAMECA: Better to go hungry than starve for beauty. 
(She hands him a flower) 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Mmm, all the perfume of the gods. I find this place delightful. So restful. 
CAMECA: It is the Garden of Peace. 
DOCTOR: A very apt description. 
CAMECA: The words of Topau. 
DOCTOR: Topau? 
CAMECA: The man who built the temple. 
DOCTOR: Oh, he designed all this, did he? 
CAMECA: As a labour of love. 
DOCTOR: Yes, one senses that immediately. Does he come here often? 
CAMECA: He watches over us constantly.
DOCTOR: Oh, I see, he's a gardener. 
CAMECA: No. 
DOCTOR: But you just said that he watches 
CAMECA: So he does. In spirit. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. He's dead. 
CAMECA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Please. 
(They sit in front of a decorated wall) 
DOCTOR: I would have liked to have met him. You knew him? 
CAMECA: Well. His son lives. 
DOCTOR: Ah, a builder. 
CAMECA: A warrior. 
DOCTOR: Yes, still I suppose he knows much of his father's work. I find the temple here very fascinating. 
CAMECA: A meeting between you could be arranged. 
DOCTOR: My dear lady, I should be so grateful. 
(Ian enters in full armour) 
IAN: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: My dear Chesterton, this dear lady has promised me to arrange a meeting between myself and the son of the man who built the temple. 
IAN: Most kind of you, madam. 
CAMECA: Pray excuse me, then you may talk more freely. 
DOCTOR: Charming person. 
IAN: Doctor 
DOCTOR: So intelligent and gentle. 
IAN: Doctor, there is to be a human sacrifice today at the ceremony for the Rain God, and I have to 
DOCTOR: Just a minute, what are you supposed to do? 
IAN: I must escort the victim to the altar and hold him down. Doctor, I can't 
DOCTOR: Do it, man! Do it but don't interfere. 
IAN: But 
DOCTOR: There's no buts about it. If human sacrifice is essential here and it's their tradition, then let them get on with it. But for our sakes, don't interfere. Now promise me, please. Promise. I'll go and tell Barbara.

[Temple]

(Susan is trying on Barbara's headdress) 
SUSAN: Hey, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Just the thing for the Royal Enclosure at Ascot. 
SUSAN: I'm rather mad about being handmaiden to a goddess. 
BARBARA: Well, I must admit that this end of it isn't too hard to take, either. 
SUSAN: Isn't that beautiful? 
BARBARA: You know, that's what gets me. I mean, take Autloc. He's sensitive, intelligent. And then there's 
SUSAN: Tlotoxl. It's incredible, isn't it? Beauty and horror developing hand in hand. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Get out of my way. Go on. Let me pass. I must talk to Yetaxa. 
(The Doctor enters) 
DOCTOR: Susan, please go outside and don't let anybody in. 
SUSAN: Right. 
BARBARA: What is it? What's happened? 
DOCTOR: There's to be a human sacrifice today at the Rain Ceremony. 
BARBARA: Oh, no. 
DOCTOR: And you must not interfere, do you understand? 
BARBARA: I can't just sit by and watch. 
DOCTOR: No, Barbara! Ian agrees with me. He's got to escort the victim to the altar. 
BARBARA: He has to what? 
DOCTOR: Yes, they've made him a warrior, and he's promised me not to interfere with the sacrifice. 
BARBARA: Well, they've made me a goddess, and I forbid it. 
DOCTOR: Barbara, no! 
BARBARA: There will be no sacrifice this afternoon, Doctor. Or ever again. The reincarnation of Yetaxa will prove to the people that you don't need to sacrifice a human being in order to make it rain. 
DOCTOR: Barbara, no. 
BARBARA: It's no good, Doctor, my mind's made up. This is the beginning of the end of the Sun God. 
DOCTOR: What are you talking about? 
BARBARA: Don't you see? If I could start the destruction of everything that's evil here, then everything that is good would survive when Cortes lands. 
DOCTOR: But you can't rewrite history! Not one line! 
SUSAN: Barbara, the high priests are coming. 
DOCTOR: Barbara, one last appeal. What you are trying to do is utterly impossible. I know, believe me, I know. 
BARBARA: Not Barbara, Yetaxa.

[Platform]

(Barbara is escorted out by the warriors. The sacrifice is already lying bent back over the stone)

[Temple]

SUSAN: Grandfather? Grandfather, what's happening? Why can't I see what's going on? 
DOCTOR: You must stay here, child. You must.

[Platform]

AUTLOC: A vision has come to us, my people. The High Priest Yetaxa has returned that you may look once more upon the sign of the coiled serpent. Great Spirit of Yetaxa, stand forth that we may honour you. 
(Barbara walks forward and the crowd cheers. She goes to the back of the platform again, and Tlotoxl steps forward for his bit in the ceremony) 
TLOTOXL: Take his arms. Take his legs. Great Tlaloc, God of Rain, I Tlotoxl, High Priest of Sacrifice, call upon you to look with favour upon our land. Give us the water that is our life, and we will honour you with blood. 
SUSAN: No! 
BARBARA: Stop. I, Yetaxa, command you. There shall be no more blood spilt. 
MAN: You have denied me honour. 
TLOTOXL: Honour us then with your death. 
(So the man jumps off the platform instead of having his heart cut out. In the distance, the thunder rumbles) 
TLOTOXL: With death came rain. 
BARBARA: Without your sacrifice came rain. 
TLOTOXL: Does Yetaxa speak with the voice of the gods or as the protector of a handmaiden? 
BARBARA: As a god. 
TLOTOXL: Then let the handmaiden be punished. She cried out and desecrated sacred ground. She transgressed the law. 
BARBARA: She did not know it. 
TLOTOXL: Then let knowledge be beaten into her. 
BARBARA: No one shall be punished for an offence committed in ignorance. 
TLOTOXL: I demand that she be punished. 
BARBARA: No! Let her instead be taught respect for your customs. 
AUTLOC: I will take her to the seminary. 
BARBARA: So be it, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: The Great Spirit of Yetaxa has spoken. 
TLOTOXL: No, no, this is not Yetaxa. This is a false goddess! And I shall destroy her.

Episode Two - The Warriors of Death

[Temple]

DOCTOR: Well, young woman, I hope you're satisfied. A happy day for you. 
BARBARA: Doctor, please. 
DOCTOR: You wouldn't be advised, would you. Oh, dear me, no, you knew better. 
BARBARA: I couldn't stand by and watch that man being sacrificed. 
DOCTOR: Do you think we felt any differently? 
BARBARA: No, of course not. 
DOCTOR: Then why not leave well alone? Human sacrifice is their tradition. Their religion. There's nothing we can do about it. 
BARBARA: I had to try. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and what happened? Tlotoxl lost faith in you, our lives are in danger, and Susan is locked up in some kind of seminary. 
BARBARA: Well at least she is safe there. 
DOCTOR: Safe? Safe, my dear child? She was perfectly safe here until you started meddling. 
BARBARA: Look, I wanted it to rain without that man being killed. I wanted them to see that his death was unnecessary. 
DOCTOR: Don't you realise he wanted to be offered to the gods? It made him feel one. 
BARBARA: I just didn't think about it. 
DOCTOR: No, that's just it. You didn't think. 
BARBARA: Oh, go away. Leave me alone. 
DOCTOR: I'm sorry, my dear. I didn't mean to be so harsh with you. 
BARBARA: No, you had every right. 
DOCTOR: However, what's done is done, and now it's up to you what happens next. 
BARBARA: Me? 
DOCTOR: Yes, you'll have to hold Tlotoxl off. 
BARBARA: How can I? He's lost faith in me. He thinks I'm a false goddess. 
DOCTOR: No, not to Autloc. 
BARBARA: You want me to play them off against each other? 
DOCTOR: Yes. The more Tlotoxl doubts you, the more you must convince Autloc that you are Yetaxa. 
BARBARA: Tlotoxl won't dare defy Autloc. 
DOCTOR: Exactly. 
BARBARA: What about you and Ian? 
DOCTOR: Oh well, Ian can look after himself, and I think I shall know more about the entrance to the tomb tonight. I've met somebody who knows how the temple was built. An Aztec lady. 
BARBARA: You're an old rogue. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but really it's up to you, Barbara. We're quite safe here as long as you're here. So 
(Tlotoxl enters) 
BARBARA: You enter unannounced. 
TLOTOXL: I proclaim myself only to my gods. Let the old man go down to the garden. 
BARBARA: Enjoy the company of your new-found friends. 
DOCTOR: As Yetaxa commands. 
(The Doctor leaves) 
TLOTOXL: I would ask you, how shall a man know his gods? 
BARBARA: By the signs of their divinity. 
TLOTOXL: And what if thieves walk among the gods? 
BARBARA: Then indeed, how shall a man know? 
TLOTOXL: By the secrets of the gods' minds. 
BARBARA: It is true. Their knowledge will reveal them. 
TLOTOXL: How many heavens are there? 
BARBARA: Does Tlotoxl covet the mantle of the High Priest of Knowledge? 
TLOTOXL: How many heavens? 
BARBARA: Thirteen. 
TLOTOXL: Name them. 
BARBARA: If the truth of my divinity lies in my mind, let Autloc seek it. 
TLOTOXL: So he shall, just as Ixta now challenges the servant of Yetaxa. 
BARBARA: For what reason? 
TLOTOXL: To discover who shall live to command our armies.

[Warriors hall]

(Ixta is practising with a spear) 
IXTA: Thus shall my enemies fall. 
IAN: Real enemies can hit back. 
IXTA: I have no fear of death. 
IAN: Perhaps not. The dead never win. 
AUTLOC: How would you attack? 
IAN: I should use more cunning. Surprise my enemy. 
IXTA: This also I can do. 
(Ixta turns away then pulls a knife on Ian. Ian laughs and holds up his thumb) 
IAN: This is all I need. 
AUTLOC: To win a victory with your thumb needs magic. 
IAN: To know your enemy's weakness isn't magic, it's common sense. 
IXTA: What weakness have I that is vulnerable to your thumb? 
IAN: You'll be surprised. I won't kill you this time. Not this time, Ixta. 
IXTA: You mock the arts of war. I defy you to harm me. 
IAN: Pick up your club. 
(As Ixta leans across, Ian grabs the back of his neck and pushes his thumbs into the pressure points. Ixta passes out) 
IAN: Don't worry, he'll be all right. 
TLOTOXL: Autloc, there is a (sees Ixta slumped across the table) 
AUTLOC: No, he sleeps. Yetaxa's servant won the victory with his thumb. 
TLOTOXL: You saw the blow? 
AUTLOC: There was no blow. He fought with his thumb. 
IAN: Tell him to have a good rest when he wakes up. 
AUTLOC: Where do you go? 
IAN: For a walk. 
(Ian and Autloc leave, and Ixta wakes) 
TLOTOXL: Could you not fight against it? 
IXTA: I was powerless. 
CAPTAIN: The Perfect Victim desires to be admitted. 
TLOTOXL: All his requests must be granted. (to himself) Must be granted. 
(The Perfect Victim enters) 
TLOTOXL: You grace us here with your presence. Ixta. Here is one who would be Commander of our armies. His name is Ixta. 
CAPTAIN: All have heard of the prowess and bravery of Ixta. 
TLOTOXL: Now there are those who say that the stories and the truth are far apart. 
IXTA: No man can win against me. 
TLOTOXL: No man? Not one? 
IXTA: I shall lead the armies. It is my right. 
TLOTOXL: Yesterday it would seem so. 
CAPTAIN: You would make an enemy? 
TLOTOXL: I? I only know that I have seen one who could defeat him. 
VICTIM: Defeat Ixta? 
IXTA: Once, and by a trick. I tell you, face to face I can pull him down. 
TLOTOXL: Perhaps. 
VICTIM: You drive the man. How often have you and Oftla instructed me that small failings in a man may be his saving graces. 
TLOTOXL: But you, O Perfect Victim, are, as your name implies. When you meet the gods, you will be able to tell them of the Aztecs. A commander should be as pure, so that his name may be held in very awe and dread. 
VICTIM: Then he who defeated Ixta should be our commander. 
IXTA: No! 
TLOTOXL: It may be that the other won by a trick. A second contest would show, but I cannot order it. 
CAPTAIN: Only the Perfect Victim may be obeyed at all times. 
VICTIM: My faith in Ixta is supreme. I wish to see him meet the other man. 
TLOTOXL: So be it. I shall arrange it at the sunset. 
CAPTAIN: Ixta could challenge the other. 
VICTIM: Let it be so. 
(The Perfect Victim and the Captain of the Guard leave) 
TLOTOXL: This I promise you. All honour and glory shall be yours if you destroy him.

[Garden of Peace]

DOCTOR: What leaf is this? 
CAMECA: It's from a herb. The sap is used by our medicine men to induce sleep, but the leaves are harmless. 
DOCTOR: I think I know about it. 
CAMECA: You are a healer? 
DOCTOR: No, no, they call me the Doctor. I am a scientist, an engineer. I'm a builder of things. 
CAMECA: Now I understand your interest in the temple. 
DOCTOR: Yes, there are one or two features inside the temple that intrigue me. 
CAMECA: I have some knowledge of it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, for instance, the tomb is sealed. Now surely the builder had some way of opening it? 
CAMECA: My knowledge is too limited to answer you, but the builder's son may know. 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course I don't wish to pry into family matters 
CAMECA: No one could think that of you. I shall arrange a meeting. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, how charming of you. 
CAMECA: When shall it be? 
DOCTOR: Oh, any time. Today? 
CAMECA: An interested mind brooks no delay. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I'm sure that's true of you, too. 
CAMECA: It was true. Now I am content to spend the time here like the others. 
DOCTOR: Oh, but their minds are old, Cameca, and that's something I'm sure yours will never be. 
CAMECA: Your heart is young too, Doctor.

[Temple]

(Barbara is enthroned, and surrounded by guards, as Tlotoxl enters from the platform) 
TLOTOXL: Leave us. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Warriors. 
(The guards leave) 
TLOTOXL: The High Priest of Knowledge will question you. 
BARBARA: And if he finds I am the spirit of Yetaxa returned? 
TLOTOXL: Then I shall beg forgiveness of the gods. 
BARBARA: The High Priest of Sacrifice has spoken. I shall remember his words. 
TLOTOXL: Remember this also. Whilst your divinity is in dispute, only those who serve the temple may approach you. 
BARBARA: My servants also? 
TLOTOXL: No, you must remain alone. 
BARBARA: Why? 
TLOTOXL: A false goddess and her servants could conspire against us. This is a danger we are not prepared to face. 
BARBARA: Then tell my servants that they may not enter here. 
TLOTOXL: They shall be told.

[Warriors hall]

CAMECA: Ixta, you wish to see me? 
IXTA: I greet you warmly, Cameca, and would seek your advice. 
CAMECA: If I can give it, I shall. 
IXTA: What do you know of magic? 
CAMECA: Nothing, though it's my belief I know one who does. 
IXTA: Name him. 
CAMECA: The old servant of Yetaxa. 
IXTA: He is of no use to me. 
CAMECA: But you can be of service to him. He seeks an interview with you. 
IXTA: To what end? 
CAMECA: He is interested in your father's work. 
IXTA: Does he know my name? 
CAMECA: No. 
IXTA: Tell him I will speak with him. 
CAMECA: Where? 
IXTA: In the garden. 
CAMECA: I shall tell him, Ixta. 
(Cameca leaves) 
IXTA: What better way to destroy your enemies than to let them destroy themselves.

[Seminary]

(Susan is looking at a pictogram book) 
AUTLOC: You have studied the Code of the Good Housewife? 
SUSAN: I have. 
AUTLOC: I would hear it. 
SUSAN: Tend well your nurseries and your flowerbeds. Keep clean your pot and stew pans. Do not spend recklessly. Do not destroy or cheapen yourself. Erm, erm. 
AUTLOC: You will never have a house. 
SUSAN: Yes. You'll never have a house or home of your own if you live like that. 
TONILA: She has learnt diligently, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: Susan is a good pupil. She uses her intelligence. Susan, this is Tonila, one of the Priests of Knowledge. 
(Susan goes to shake his hand) 
AUTLOC: No, no, you do not greet your elders in such a manner. 
SUSAN: No? 
AUTLOC: No, you stand still, not looking around. You keep your eyes fixed on the person you're being introduced to, unless you're meeting your future husband for the first time. Then you keep you eyes downcast. 
SUSAN: Well, how will I know? 
AUTLOC: Know what? 
SUSAN: Well, that he's to be my future husband. 
AUTLOC: You'll be told. 
SUSAN: Told? I'm not going to be told who to marry. 
AUTLOC: What say have you in the matter? 
SUSAN: It's my life, I'll spend it with whom I choose, not someone picked out for me.

[Garden of Peace]

(Ixta is wearing a jaguar head as a helmet) 
IXTA: You are the old servant of Yetaxa? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, indeed, I am. 
IXTA: My father built the temple. 
DOCTOR: Oh, indeed, yes. Well, I find the entrance to the High Priest's tomb a particularly fine piece of work. 
IXTA: Few temples have an entrance like it. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, of course, yes, yes, he kept that secret, didn't he. 
IXTA: He has drawn it. 
DOCTOR: Really? I wonder if it's at all possible that I might see the drawings, hmm? 
IXTA: Can a humble warrior deny the request of Yetaxa's servant? I will bring it to you after sunset, if the gods are willing. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't see why not, hmm? 
IXTA: Tonight, at sunset, I have to meet another warrior in combat. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I hope not to the death? 
IXTA: No, but defeat would mean disgrace. No man could look upon me or speak to me for many days. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. 
IXTA: My opponent has been selected. I know his name and I fear defeat. 
DOCTOR: And what weapons do you use? 
IXTA: Only my hands. My strength lies in the use of a spear or a club. 
DOCTOR: Really? Indeed. Yes. Oh, dear, dear, dear, and I would have loved to have seen those drawings. 
IXTA: No more than I desire a victory. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, may I suggest that we assist each other? 
IXTA: I thank the older servant of Yetaxa. 
(Ixta leaves, the Doctor picks an arum leaf and puts a needle through the stem) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think a little horticulture might go a long way.

[Warriors hall]

(Ian is practicing brandishing a club) 
TLOTOXL: Does fatigue affect the servant of the gods? 
IAN: Does the High Priest scorn my attempts to be worthy of command? 
(Ixta enters) 
TLOTOXL: (quietly) Can you conquer him? 
IXTA: I know it. Ian. 
IAN: Yes, Ixta. 
IXTA: I challenge you to a contest of strength. 
IAN: A fight? 
IXTA: Without weapons. Your hands have defeated me. Let mine try to win a victory over you. 
TLOTOXL: Will you deny him? 
IAN: No. 
IXTA: We will fight here as the sun sets. 
IAN: All right. 
(Ian leaves them to whisper) 
TLOTOXL: You are confident of victory? 
IXTA: If you wish it, he shall die. 
TLOTOXL: Let him die.

[Temple]

BARBARA: I tell you, Tlotoxl is determined to destroy me. 
AUTLOC: He cannot while I believe you to be Yetaxa. 
BARBARA: Yet you question me at his bidding. 
AUTLOC: We both serve the gods. 
BARBARA: Do you? Were you not angry when I forbade the sacrifice to the Rain God? 
AUTLOC: No. 
BARBARA: Do you question the value of such sacrifice? 
AUTLOC: I accepted it. But we send messengers to the gods, why should the gods not send a messenger to us? 
BARBARA: To say there shall be no more human sacrifice? 
AUTLOC: I shall not oppose the gods if it is their will that such sacrifices cease.

[Platform]

BARBARA: The High Priest of Knowledge speaks with great wisdom. 
AUTLOC: If your words are denied, shall we not be living in defiance of the gods? 
BARBARA: Famine, drought and disaster will come, and more and more sacrifices will be made. I see a time when ten thousand will die in one day. 
AUTLOC: Where will it end, Yetaxa? 
BARBARA: In total destruction. Your civilisation will pass forever from the land. 
AUTLOC: You prophesy our doom. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
AUTLOC: Let me think upon these words, Great Spirit. 
BARBARA: As the High Priest desires.

[Garden of Peace]

IXTA: The thorn of a cactus will give me victory? 
DOCTOR: Yes, and make sure that you don't scratch yourself. 
IXTA: The aged servant of Yetaxa offers poison. 
DOCTOR: No, it won't kill. It'll slowly drain away the strength of your opponent. And scratch here. 
(The Doctor indicates the inside of his wrist) 
IXTA: I thank you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, and young man, you won't forget the drawings, hmm? 
IXTA: I shall be here after sunset. 
DOCTOR: So shall I.

[Platform]

TLOTOXL: She prophesied our doom? 
AUTLOC: Yes. 
TLOTOXL: To avert her own. I tell you she is a false goddess. 
AUTLOC: I do not know it. 
TLOTOXL: You will question her again? 
AUTLOC: Yes. 
TLOTOXL: Conceal yourself. 
(They hide around the corner and watch the Doctor go into the temple)

[Temple]

DOCTOR: Barbara? Barbara! 
BARBARA: Doctor, go away. 
DOCTOR: What? 
BARBARA: You're not allowed in here. 
DOCTOR: Nonsense. I'm supposed to be one of your servants. 
BARBARA: Hasn't Tlotoxl told you that while I'm being questioned no one is allowed to see me. 
DOCTOR: All right, I'll go, but first, I think I shall know more about the entrance to the tomb tonight. 
BARBARA: Good. 
DOCTOR: All I had to do was make certain some warrior won a fight. 
BARBARA: What warrior? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. But he had a sort of mask or face like a cat. 
BARBARA: But that's Ixta, Doctor, and he's fighting Ian. 
DOCTOR: Ixta? Ixta! I must warn Ian.

[Platform]

TLOTOXL: Hold him. He has transgressed the law. 
DOCTOR: Sir, I will not have 
CAPTAIN: Do you wish him confined or 
TLOTOXL: Take him to the barracks. 
DOCTOR: I demand to be released. Take your hands off me, sir. How dare you! How dare you! 
(The Doctor is hauled away) 
BARBARA: He had no right to arrest my servant. 
AUTLOC: The old man transgressed the law. 
BARBARA: He did not know it. No one told him. 
AUTLOC: If that is so, to hold him prisoner would be unjust. I shall obtain his release. 
BARBARA: Thank you. Autloc? There is to be a contest between Ian and Ixta. I forbid it. 
AUTLOC: Great Spirit, it cannot be avoided. Only one of them can command our army. 
BARBARA: Then let it be Ixta. 
AUTLOC: You deny your servant honour? 
BARBARA: The contest is ill-timed. Ixta has trained for many months. 
AUTLOC: Yet I have seen your servant defeat him, and it is not a mortal combat. 
BARBARA: Then see that it remains so. 
AUTLOC: The spirit of Yetaxa has spoken.

[Warriors hall]

VICTIM: Let the contest begin. 
(And so it does, with Ian throwing Ixta in an easy shoulder roll. Then another simple throw, and another. Ian is obviously a fan of wrestling on British television in the sixties.) 
DOCTOR: Ian, don't let him scratch you. 
IAN: What? 
(Too late, that diversion was all Ixta needed to do the deed. The fight resumes) 
DOCTOR: Tlotoxl, stop this nonsense. Stop it! 
TLOTOXL: No. 
DOCTOR: Ixta is using that magic I gave him. 
TLOTOXL: Then you should rejoice. Ixta will win. 
(Not by the looks of the arm lock Ian has Ixta in. Then Ixta gets Ian on the floor, slams his head against the ground a few times and stands on his throat) 
DOCTOR: Autloc, stop this! 
TLOTOXL: No. Let it continue, to the death! 
(Ian throws Ixta off, but he is starting to get whoosy) 
TLOTOXL: Destroy him, Ixta. 
AUTLOC: Yetaxa forbids it. 
TLOTOXL: A false goddess forbids it. Destroy him. 
BARBARA: Stop! 
TLOTOXL: Your place is in the temple. 
BARBARA: I am loyal to those who serve me. 
TLOTOXL: If you are Yetaxa, save him.

Episode Three - The Bride of Sacrifice

(Barbara snatches a knife and holds it to Tlotoxl's throat) 
BARBARA: If my servant dies, so does Tlotoxl. Put it down. 
(Ixta puts down the club) 
BARBARA: I did as you commanded. Now you must obey me. Those who serve me shall not be punished. 
TLOTOXL: So be it. 
(She takes the knife from his throat) 
VICTIM: The contest is ended. Ixta may not claim the victory. 
(The Perfect Victim, Tonila and the guard leave) 
AUTLOC: Attend Yetaxa's sermon. Take the old man to the courtyard and in obedience to Yetaxa, release him. 
(Tlotoxl goes to Ixta and takes the needle) 
TLOTOXL: Is it true? The old man gave you this to win a victory? 
IXTA: It is true. 
TLOTOXL: It is not magic. It is the juice from a plant. Tonila will know. Why did he aid you? 
IXTA: It was a trick. He did not know that I was to fight Ian. He promised to help me if I told him the secret of my father's work. 
TLOTOXL: What secrets? 
IXTA: How the tomb of Yetaxa may be opened. 
TLOTOXL: I must question him about it. 
IXTA: Tlotoxl, what of Ian? He was at my mercy. 
TLOTOXL: So shall he be again. I promise it. 
IXTA: And next time you will honour your promise.

[Temple]

AUTLOC: Tlotoxl was humiliated. He will not forget, nor will he forgive. 
BARBARA: I did as he commanded. 
AUTLOC: But not as he expected. 
BARBARA: What did he want? A miracle? 
AUTLOC: We all awaited it. 
BARBARA: Why should I use divine powers when human ability will suffice? 
AUTLOC: Yetaxa has spoken.

[Platform]

BARBARA: Has the High Priest of Knowledge thought about my prophesy? 
AUTLOC: I have. It is true, if we defy the gods we shall be destroyed. 
BARBARA: There are two ways. The god's way, and Tlotoxl's, which is evil and must be destroyed. 
AUTLOC: He is the High Priest of Sacrifice. 
BARBARA: When is the next sacrifice? 
AUTLOC: Three days from today. The moon will pass before the sun and then all will be in darkness.
BARBARA: At noon? 
AUTLOC: Even so. 
BARBARA: There's to be an eclipse. And Tlotoxl will offer human blood so that the sun will shine again. 
AUTLOC: Yes. 
BARBARA: But it's a trick! As the High Priest of Knowledge, you know the sun will shine again. 
AUTLOC: Unless the gods withdraw their favour from us. 
BARBARA: Am I not a god? Support me. Tlotoxl won't dare defy us both. 
AUTLOC: If I take that course, there is no way back for me. In all humility, I beg you, do not deceive me or prove false to me.

[Garden of Peace]

TLOTOXL: The priest Tonila's knowledge of plants has served me well. 
DOCTOR: I'm delighted. 
TLOTOXL: What manner of servant are you? 
DOCTOR: Oh, go away, Tlotoxl. 
TLOTOXL: I'm curious about you. First you try to give Ixta victory. 
DOCTOR: Ixta cheated me. 
TLOTOXL: I wonder. 
DOCTOR: I am faithful to my friends. 
TLOTOXL: Yet you deceive Yetaxa. 
DOCTOR: Not at all. 
TLOTOXL: You try to get into the tomb without her knowledge. What is it you want from the tomb? 
DOCTOR: What is it you want from me? 
TLOTOXL: I want but one thing. Proof that she is a false goddess. 
DOCTOR: Then open the tomb. 
TLOTOXL: That cannot be achieved. 
DOCTOR: Then talk to Ixta. He has some drawings. 
TLOTOXL: In whose service are you? 
DOCTOR: I serve the truth. Help me, Tlotoxl, and I promise you, you will find it.

[Warriors hall]

(Ian wakes to see Ixta caressing a knife) 
IXTA: Do not be afraid of me, Ian. Now that I can defeat you openly, I have no need to destroy you in secret. 
IAN: Whatever it was you scratched me with beat me, not you, Ixta. 
IXTA: Did you yourself not say use stealth, surprise your enemy? 
IAN: True. 
IXTA: Did I not do those things? 
IAN: Yes, you did. 
IXTA: A thorn, some poison, and the aged servant of Yetaxa. 
IAN: Did the Doctor help you? 
IXTA: Your friends make strange allies, Ian. 
IAN: Did he know you were going to fight me? 
IXTA: No. 
IAN: I need some fresh air. 
IXTA: Let me help you. Now that I have proved that I can be the victor, we two can be friends for the little while that you have left to live. 
IAN: Oh, I'm going to die, am I? 
IXTA: Oh yes, Ian. Next time I shall not fail to kill you. 
TLOTOXL: Ixta. I see your strength has been restored to you. 
IAN: Don't tell me you're my friend now. 
TLOTOXL: Ixta, I have need of the drawings. 
IXTA: The ones I promised to the old man? None exist. The secret of the tomb died with my father. 
TLOTOXL: Why did he not set it down? 
IXTA: He thought to, but disappeared before it could be done. 
IAN: So that's why the Doctor prepared a thorn for you. 
IXTA: Yes, and now the old man waits in vain for the drawings. Stealth and cunning, Ian. 
(Ixta and Ian leave, but Ian hangs back to eavesdrop) 
TLOTOXL: You are well versed in these matters, Tonila. Just as the old man helped Ixta defeat Ian, so shall you help me destroy the false Yetaxa. 
IXTA [OC]: Ian? 
(Ian has to leave) 
TONILA: I cannot do this. No, I will not. Destroy the gods and we destroy ourselves. 
TLOTOXL: The gods are immortal, are they not? 
TONILA: Yes. 
TLOTOXL: Then how can we, mere flesh and blood, destroy them? 
TONILA: But did you not suggest the use of knowledge of poisons against Yetaxa? 
TLOTOXL: I say that such a test would prove the woman. If she dies, she is mortal. If she lives, then she is indeed the spirit of Yetaxa returned. Now, would you deny yourself the glory, Tonila, of seeing the gods proved before your eyes? 
TONILA: I shall prepare the mixture, then you and I and Autloc will test Yetaxa. 
TLOTOXL: Autloc? I think not. 
TONILA: Why not? 
TLOTOXL: His mind is set that she is Yetaxa. He would forbid the test. No, you and I will do this thing, Tonila. For once, the High Priest of Knowledge shall be in ignorance.

[Garden of Peace]

AUTLOC: Such happiness, Cameca, outshines the sun. 
CAMECA: And may outlast it, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: What brings about such joy? 
(She looks over at the Doctor) 
AUTLOC: Then I am grateful to him. You carry cocoa beans. For barter? 
CAMECA: I've been to the market and obtained food. 
AUTLOC: Then these must be for drink. 
CAMECA: Only the gods may know. 
AUTLOC: And the mortals live in hope. 
CAMECA: He is a gentle companion, and most dear to me. 
AUTLOC: Then prepare these beans as a love potion. 
CAMECA: That would be too bold. Rather he should show his love for me. 
AUTLOC: You wish him to prepare it? 
CAMECA: Yes. 
AUTLOC: Good fortune. 
(Autloc leaves, and Cameca goes over to the Doctor) 
CAMECA: I greet the good and noble Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Ah, my dear Cameca. How nice to see you again. The garden's been a lonely place without you. 
CAMECA: If one's interest is held, loneliness does not exist. 
DOCTOR: I was merely passing the time until you arrived. Oh, this sign. I hadn't noticed it before. 
(A design within a circle carved on the wall) 
CAMECA: It is the Yetaxa sign. In almost every building, honour is paid to Yetaxa. 
DOCTOR: Oh, really? 
(Cameca spills the cocoa beans) 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear. Cocoa beans? 
CAMECA: We use these to barter for our daily needs. 
DOCTOR: What am excellent idea. A currency you can drink. Delicious. 
CAMECA: You know our custom? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear, of course. 
CAMECA: The drinking of cocoa has it's own special meaning. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I agree. A rare delight. We should take a cup together. 
CAMECA: Are you certain? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, quite. Now, give me some beans and I'll prepare them. 
CAMECA: You insist upon this? 
DOCTOR: I do. I insist absolutely. As a token of my esteem. 
CAMECA: The gods are smiling favour through your eyes. May it always be so. My dear Doctor, I accept with all my heart. 
DOCTOR: Wait here, my dear. I'll be back.

[Temple]

BARBARA: Why do you take such risks? 
IAN: Because I overheard something that Tlotoxl said to Tonila. 
BARBARA: Tonila? I didn't know they were allies. 
IAN: They're planning something against you. I'm sure of it. 
BARBARA: I'll watch them both. Tlotoxl's dangerous. He seems able to bring people around to his way of thinking. 
IAN: You've got it all wrong, Barbara. All the people here share Tlotoxl's views. 
BARBARA: What about Autloc? I'm sick and tired of all this arguing and quarrelling. First the Doctor and now you. Why can't you see what I'm trying to do? 
IAN: I can. 
BARBARA: Well you're not helping. Tlotoxl's evil and he'll make everyone else the same. 
IAN: They are the same, Barbara. That's the whole point. You keep on insisting that Tlotoxl's the odd man out, but he isn't. 
BARBARA: I don't believe it. 
IAN: Well, you must. If only you could stand away from this thing, you'd see it clearly. Autloc's the extraordinary man here. He's the reasonable one, the civilised one, the one that's prepared to listen to advice. But he's one man, Barbara. One man. 
BARBARA: Then everything I've tried to do. Oh, I thought I could alter them. 
IAN: You can't fight a whole way of life, Barbara. 
BARBARA: I suppose not. I've just been fooling myself. Ian, what can we do? 
IAN: We can get into that tomb and leave them alone. 
BARBARA: Yes. Ian. There's someone coming. 
(Ian hides, and Tlotoxl enters with Tonila) 
TLOTOXL: We greet Yetaxa. 
BARBARA: What do you want here? 
TLOTOXL: I come before Yetaxa in humility. 
BARBARA: Such quiet words do you credit. 
TLOTOXL: We have both spoken hot words and thought black deeds, and I must be the one to find a common ground. 
TONILA: End this conflict. 
BARBARA: Drink this draught with us as a symbol of our new friendship. Then I will serve you, and whatever words Yetaxa speaks, I shall echo. 
TONILA: I am the witness. 
BARBARA: Then I accept. 
TLOTOXL: I hear your words and I rejoice. 
(He hands her the cup. She's about to speak when she spots Ian waving frantically not to) 
BARBARA: Tlotoxl, you do believe me to be Yetaxa? 
TLOTOXL: I shall proclaim you when we stand together before the people. 
BARBARA: Then I would have you perform one small service. For as I prove my faith in you, so must you prove yours to me. 
TLOTOXL: Tell me quickly, that I may obey and all the past be forgotten. 
BARBARA: Drink first. 
TLOTOXL: What? 
BARBARA: Drink it. 
(She offers it to Tonila, who also shrinks away in fear) 
BARBARA: So this is your friendship. (she smashes the cup) You defile this temple. Get out of my sight. Go!

[Platform]

(Tonila flees, but Tlotoxl falls against the sacrificial stone) 
TLOTOXL: I only meant to test you. 
BARBARA: With poison? 
TLOTOXL: Yetaxa would have lived. The gods are immortal. 
BARBARA: Well I would have died. I am not Yetaxa. 
TLOTOXL: False. False! I knew. 
BARBARA: And who will believe you? I warn you, Tlotoxl, you say one word against me to the people and I'll have them destroy you. Destroy you! 
(Tlotoxl slinks off, and Ian comes out) 
IAN: Don't worry, Barbara. It'll be all right. We'll get away from this place.

[Garden of Peace]

(The Doctor and Cameca are about to share the cocoa) 
DOCTOR: Happy days, my dear. 
CAMECA: The happiest of my life, dear heart. Was ever such a potion brewed? In bliss is quenched my thirsty heart. 
DOCTOR: Very prettily put, my dear. 
CAMECA: Oh, sweet-favoured man, you have declared your love for me, and I acknowledge and accept your gentle proposal. 
(The Doctor nearly chokes on his cocoa)

[Platform]

AUTLOC: What progress do our pupils make at the seminary, Tonila? 
TONILA: All are diligent in their studies. 
AUTLOC: And how does Yetaxa's handmaiden fare? 
TONILA: Her intelligence far exceeds that of the others, and she has knowledge of things known only to the priests. 
AUTLOC: You are surprised? She also serves the gods. 
TLOTOXL: She serves other gods than ours. 
AUTLOC: Tlotoxl, when will you cease to doubt Yetaxa's divinity? 
TLOTOXL: I know she is false. She has come amongst us to destroy us. 
AUTLOC: Or to save us. 
(Autloc enters the temple) 
TLOTOXL: Autloc believes in Yetaxa. What of you? 
TONILA: I'm not sure. I do not know whose voice to hear. 
TLOTOXL: When I have the proof, my voice will be like thunder in the sky. But what is the way? She is too clever. Her handmaiden. Alone, in the seminary. 
TONILA: She's intelligent, but self-willed. 
TLOTOXL: Tell me about her. 
TONILA: One day, in the presence of Autloc and myself, she said she would only marry someone of her own choosing. 
TLOTOXL: She would not marry on advice or for honour? 
TONILA: Not unless she chose the man. 
TLOTOXL: Then we must find a suitable husband for her, Tonila. Yetaxa's weakness lies not in herself, but in her servants.

[Seminary]

AUTLOC: In the annals of Kohurticlan, there is the myth of the Five Suns in the Sky. Name them. 
SUSAN: The first was known as Four Tiger, the second the Sun of Air, the third the Son of Fire and Rain, the fourth the Sun of Water, and finally the present one, the Sun of Man. 
AUTLOC: Excellent, Susan. 
TONILA: I greet you, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: I honour you, but why do you come here? 
VICTIM: It is my wish to look upon her. 
AUTLOC: Do you know who she is? 
VICTIM: Does she know who I am? 
AUTLOC: No. 
VICTIM: Tell her. 
AUTLOC: In a few days time, Susan, darkness will descend upon the land even though it is day. 
TONILA: The sun will be hidden from our eyes. 
SUSAN: You mean there'll be an eclipse. 
AUTLOC: At that time, a sacrifice will be made to the Sun God, and this young man 
SUSAN: Is to be the victim. Oh, it's horrible. 
VICTIM: But it is a great honour for me to be chosen. I shall take her as my bride. 
SUSAN: Bride? He thinks I'll marry him? He must be mad. 
TONILA: For his last few days of life, all that he desires is granted to him. 
SUSAN: Well, that doesn't include me. Let him die if he wants to die, but don't ask me to marry him. 
AUTLOC: It is the Aztec law, Susan. 
SUSAN: It's barbaric. I won't do it. I won't. 
TONILA: For this you will be most severely punished. 
AUTLOC: But, Tonila. 
TONILA: She has broken the law. It must be reported to Tlotoxl. 
AUTLOC: Whatever's in my power, I shall do. 
SUSAN: You're monsters. All of you, monsters. Oh, Grandfather. Grandfather.

[Garden of Peace]

CAMECA: My dear, I'm glad to find you alone. 
DOCTOR: Cameca. 
CAMECA: I have a gift for you. It signifies my love for you. It came from Yetaxa's tomb. 
(It is a medallion) 
DOCTOR: From where? 
CAMECA: The tomb. See, it has Yetaxa's sign on it. 
DOCTOR: Magnificent, my dear. Where did you get it? 
CAMECA: Ixta's father. He was in love with me. He gave it me the night before he disappeared. 
DOCTOR: In this garden? 
CAMECA: Yes. He was never seen again. But all this is a long time ago, and I now look forward to a life of bliss with you. 
DOCTOR: And I with you, my dear. 
CAMECA: Peace and contentment. 
DOCTOR: Serenity. 
CAMECA: We must have a garden of our own. 
DOCTOR: Yes, why not? A garden of our won.

[Temple]

BARBARA: Why do you attend me? 
TONILA: There is a matter we would place before you. BARBARA: Tonila, you wish the gods to favour you with their good opinions? 
TONILA: Yes. 
BARBARA: Yet you sin against them with your test of poison. 
TLOTOXL: Let us talk of this when 
BARBARA: Be quiet. Tonila, we freely forgive you your sins against us. 
TLOTOXL: What is the punishment for one who talks out against our teachings? 
BARBARA: In public? 
TONILA: Yes, and after warnings. 
BARBARA: Who heard this? 
TONILA: Autloc and I. 
BARBARA: Autloc? 
TLOTOXL: Then it must be true. 
TONILA: Great Spirit, the penalty is set. The offender must be publically scourged and ridiculed. 
TLOTOXL: The tongue and ears must be pierced with thorns. 
BARBARA: No, I cannot agree to that. 
TLOTOXL: Would you deny a punishment that Autloc himself upholds? 
TONILA: Without discipline what purpose is there? We would all scatter and give way to weakness. 
BARBARA: When is this punishment to take place? 
TONILA: On the day of darkness. 
TLOTOXL: Before the people. You must be there so that all know the gravity of the offence. 
BARBARA: I wish my servants to be present. The two men and my handmaiden. 
TLOTOXL: I shall arrange it. The two men and your handmaiden shall be there.

[Warriors hall]

DOCTOR: That came out of the tomb. And the man who discovered it later disappeared in the garden. And on the wall is a stone with Yetaxa's sign on it. 
IAN: You mean there's a tunnel from there to the tomb? 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's what I suspect. 
IAN: Where did you get hold of this? 
DOCTOR: My fiance. 
IAN: I see. Your what? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I made some cocoa and got engaged. Don't giggle, my boy, It's neither here nor there. We must find that tunnel tonight. 
IAN: Yes, all right. 
DOCTOR: Now, I'll wait for you in the garden, and when Ixta's asleep, you come out. 
IAN: Yes, I will. All right. Oh, by the way, Doctor. Congratulations.

[Temple]

AUTLOC: Is it still your intention to intervene at the human sacrifice? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
AUTLOC: I shall match your courage, Yetaxa. 
BARBARA: Thank you, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: I thought. It grieves my heart, as it must yours. 
BARBARA: Oh, I shan't be sorry to see the end of the sacrifices. 
AUTLOC: I refer to your handmaiden. 
BARBARA: Susan? What about her? 
AUTLOC: She spoke against our teachings. 
BARBARA: So she's the one to be punished. I must stop it, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: You cannot. 
BARBARA: Yes, I can. She'll be punished at the eclipse. So when we've stopped the human sacrifice, I can order Tlotoxl to release her. 
AUTLOC: But Susan will be punished first, before the sacrifice. 
BARBARA: I can't let him harm her. I can't. 
AUTLOC: Will you sacrifice us to save your handmaiden pain?

[Warriors hall]

(It's night. Ian leaves, but Ixta wakes and sees him go. He gets a knife and follows)

[Garden of Peace]

(The Doctor is trying to crowbar out Yetaxa's stone, when he hears someone coming and hides) 
IAN: Doctor? Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Ian. I can't move that an inch. 
IAN: Let me try. Yes, it does move. 
DOCTOR: Good. 
IAN: There is a tunnel. 
DOCTOR: Yes. You stay guard. 
IAN: No, no, no, no, no. I'll go. 
DOCTOR: Both of us. 
IAN: No, no, Doctor. It's too dangerous. 
DOCTOR: Wait a minute, wait a minute. Take that. You might need it. (a torch) 
IAN: Yes, thanks. 
(Ian goes into the tunnel, and Ixta sneaks up on the Doctor) 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, a pleasant evening. 
IXTA: A fine night for walking. 
DOCTOR: Yes, exactly. I was just about to do that. 
IXTA: I myself could not sleep. 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, what a pity. 
IXTA: That stone must be replaced. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. Somebody must have moved it. I suppose they had a reason. I should leave it where it is. 
IXTA: The garden would be ruined. 
DOCTOR: What do you mean, ruined? 
IXTA: There is a tunnel. My father built it. A water course from a lake in the hills. Would you see the garden flooded? 
DOCTOR: It's perfectly dry. 
(Ixta gets the stone back in place) 
IXTA: There's a small gate near the entrance by the lake. It is opened and closed often. I must replace the stone before the tunnel fills with water. 
(and in the tunnel, Ian's feet are getting wet with the running water)

Episode Four - The Day of Darkness

(In the tunnel, Ian has found a slab in the roof with Yetaxa's sign on it. He pushes it up and crawls into another tunnel)

[Garden of Peace]

DOCTOR: Open this, Ixta. Ixta, please. Please open it. 
IXTA: Why? 
DOCTOR: Ian Chesterton is in there. 
IXTA: I thank you, old man. This time you have really given me my victory. 
(Ixta leaves, laughing) 
DOCTOR: Open it! Open it!

[Tomb]

(The tunnel comes out underneath Yetaxa's bier. Ian looks for something strong enough to attach to a hook at the top of the pivoting door and uses straps from the body. He pulls the door open and goes out into)

[Temple]

(He lets the door close while still holding onto the strap) 
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: Barbara, there's a tunnel all the way up from the garden into the tomb! 
BARBARA: You came through there? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Barbara! Barbara! Something terrible, my dear. I just don't know how to tell you. Ian 
IAN: I'm all right. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, I thought you were drowned. 
IAN: I nearly was. Who put that stone back? 
DOCTOR: Ixta. 
IAN: Oh, so he followed me, eh? 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course he followed you. But never mind about that. How does that door work? 
IAN: Don't worry, I've got it licked. All we have to do is get Susan up here. 
BARBARA: We can't. She refused to marry the victim for the next sacrifice so she's to be punished. 
DOCTOR: Is she still at that seminary? 
BARBARA: I think so, but she'll be heavily guarded. 
IAN: Don't worry, I'll get her out. Now you stay here. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. And watch out for that man Ixta.

[Warriors hall]

TLOTOXL: The chosen warrior has done well. With Ian dead they are at completely at our mercy. The rewards I promised you shall be yours. 
IXTA: Thank you. 
TLOTOXL: I have a task for you. 
IXTA: Tell me. 
TLOTOXL: Guard the handmaiden. 
(Susan is brought in) 
TLOTOXL: Do not let her escape nor release her to Autloc. His faith in our gods is wavering. 
SUSAN: Why have I been brought here? Does Autloc know I'm here? What of Yetaxa? I'm her handmaiden. She wished to see me. 
TLOTOXL: Oh, she will see you, at the appointed time. 
IXTA: Rest there. 
TLOTOXL: Tlotoxl thanks you. 
(Tlotoxl and the guards leave) 
IXTA: Do you ask yourself where Ian is? I can tell you. He is dead. 
SUSAN: I don't believe you. 
IXTA: The old man saw him die. He knows it to be true. 
(Ian is behind them) 
IXTA: Now seven warriors have challenged my right to command and only I survive. 
IAN: Good commanders don't jump to conclusions, Ixta. 
(Ian knocks out Ixta) 
SUSAN: Ian! I knew he was lying. 
IAN: Yes. 
SUSAN: He said you were dead. 
IAN: I nearly was. Come on, let's get going. 
SUSAN: Where are we going? 
IAN: The Tardis. Come on.

[Temple]

BARBARA: It'll soon be light. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's bound to take him some time to get there and back. 
BARBARA: Oh, I just want to get out of here as quickly as possible. 
DOCTOR: Hmm, and the history? 
BARBARA: Remains unchanged. 
DOCTOR: No rewriting? 
(He goes to the strap Ian left running under the entrance to the tomb) 
DOCTOR: This isn't going to be easy, you know. 
BARBARA: Well, if we all pull. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we can pull, but I think we'd better do it at an angle. What we really need is a pulley. 
BARBARA: A pulley? But the Aztecs don't have the wheel. 
DOCTOR: I know, but it isn't going to be easy. 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
(Susan and Ian enter) 
DOCTOR: My dear Susan. I'll tell you how glad I am to see you later on. Come along. Don't waste time. 
IAN: All right. Susan, as soon as the door opens, grab it. 
SUSAN: All right. 
DOCTOR: Now, this is not going to be so easy as you think, young man. 
IAN: Oh? Well let's give it a try, anyway. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, be careful. 
IAN: Ready, steady. Pull. 
DOCTOR: Cord's old. It might break. No, no, wait. Let's do it at an angle. Come along. 
IAN: All right. 
(The Doctor puts the strap or cord over the top of Yetaxa's throne) 
DOCTOR: That's it, it's safer. 
IAN: Right? 
DOCTOR: Right. 
IAN: Ready? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: Pull! 
DOCTOR: Harder! 
(But it does snap against the edge of the throne)

[Warriors hall]

IXTA: How could he have escaped? 
TLOTOXL: Did you not let the handmaiden escape? She must be in my power. 
IXTA: I shall find her. 
TLOTOXL: No, I shall. I have another task for you. 
IXTA: Tell me. 
TLOTOXL: Should Autloc learn of the warrior's return, he will be truly convinced that she is Yetaxa. 
IXTA: What can I do? 
TLOTOXL: His faith in her must be completely destroyed. (picks up a weapon) Is this one Ian's? Then use it on Autloc. 
IXTA: To strike down a High Priest? There is no greater offence. 
TLOTOXL: Would you see us humiliated? Each day as the sun rises, Autloc walks in meditation alone in the garden. Approach him with stealth and strike him down. Leave this close at hand. 
IXTA: So that Ian will be blamed. 
TLOTOXL: This time, Ixta, do not fail me.

[Temple]

IAN: Yes, I must try that stone in the garden. 
DOCTOR: I think you're right. 
IAN: But I'll need someone to watch. 
SUSAN: Me. 
BARBARA: No, I think Susan should stay here. 
IAN: Yes. We'd be careful, Barbara. If Susan and I can get that stone free, we can let you into the tomb from the other side. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: All right. 
IAN: Come on. 
SUSAN: Don't worry. 
(Ian and Susan leave) 
BARBARA: Oh, we're like drowning people, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, now, now, now, don't worry, don't worry, don't worry. Don't give up hope. 
BARBARA: Maybe it's this place. I just feel sometimes as if all the people who've died here are watching, waiting for me to die, too.

[Garden of Peace]

IAN: Get yourself down behind that bush. 
SUSAN: Right. I'll whistle if anyone comes. 
IAN: All right. 
(But he's hardly got his hands on the stone when - )
SUSAN: Ian! Look. Is he dead? 
IAN: No. 
(Autloc groans) 
IAN: This is a trap. This is mine. Ixta gave it to me. Come on, let's get out of here. 
CAPTAIN: Hold him! This belongs to you? 
IXTA: Yes, I gave it to him. (helping Autloc up) Ian was helping the handmaiden to escape. He struck you down from behind. 
IAN: How do you know he was hit from behind? 
IXTA: That club belongs to Ian. Take them away. 
AUTLOC: You are the servants of a false goddess.

[Warriors hall]

TLOTOXL: She is a false goddess, and now Autloc has proclaimed it. Yet we cannot destroy her, Tonila, until the time is ripe. 
TONILA: The people would not understand. 
TLOTOXL: The day of darkness is the perfect time. As the Perfect Victim leaves this land, so shall the woman who calls herself Yetaxa also depart. 
TONILA: How shall it be done? 
TLOTOXL: As the gods appear, may they not also disappear just as suddenly? I shall arrange it. I had a vision, Tonila, of a room with three walls. The false Yetaxa shall be placed in that room and the fourth wall added. Then order shall be restored.

[Garden of Peace]

(The Doctor is carving himself a pulley wheel) 
CAMECA: Of all Aztec men, the High Priest of Knowledge is the most gentle. 
DOCTOR: Ian didn't hit him, Cameca. 
CAMECA: Yet his club was found here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and as Ian has said, he was in the garden. I know, and he's innocent. 
CAMECA: Yet he is to die. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Butchered by Ixta. 
CAMECA: If it is your wish, let our marriage be postponed. What is it you're making. 
DOCTOR: Oh, just something to take my mind off the problems. 
CAMECA: Let me intercede with Autloc on your friend's behalf. 
DOCTOR: It isn't just Tlotoxl that we have to contend with. He and his kind will destroy all this one day. 
CAMECA: How can it be prevented if it is the will of the gods. 
DOCTOR: It isn't the will of Yetaxa. 
CAMECA: The gods wish an end to sacrifice? 
DOCTOR: Yes, and Yetaxa speaks for them. But Autloc is needed here, and he won't go to the temple. 
CAMECA: I shall persuade him to go to Yetaxa, beloved.

[Temple]

BARBARA: I thank you for attending me, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: Such gratitude is due to Cameca. 
BARBARA: Then thank her for me. My servant did not strike you, Autloc. 
AUTLOC: The evidence we have proves he did. 
BARBARA: If that is true, then I am unworthy of your trust. Of all people, Autloc, why should I harm you? No, there's some plan here. Who would benefit most by breaking up our friendship? Tlotoxl. 
AUTLOC: Tlotoxl hates you, I know that, and Ixta does his bidding. And I am bewildered by the things that happen. I have many doubts, but in this matter I must believe you. As for the others, I do not know if you are Yetaxa. I do not know what you are. 
BARBARA: My servants are in danger. Will you see them die? 
AUTLOC: Your handmaiden I may be able to protect, but the young man Ian is too closely guarded. 
BARBARA: He didn't strike you, Autloc. He didn't. 
AUTLOC: I cannot save him.

[Garden of Peace]

(The pulley wheel is being admired by its creator) 
DOCTOR: There you are, my dear, it's nearly finished. 
CAMECA: As is our time together. I do not know what its purpose is, but I've always known it would take you from me. 
DOCTOR: Yes. I'm sorry, my dear. 
CAMECA: Tomorrow will truly be a day of darkness. 
DOCTOR: For both of us. 
CAMECA: Tlotoxl is determined to destroy Yetaxa? 
DOCTOR: He must do to safeguard his own beliefs. 
CAMECA: We are a doomed people, my dear. There's no turning back for us. 
DOCTOR: You're a very fine woman, Cameca, and you'll always be very, very dear to me. 
(Cameca walks away from the Doctor) 
AUTLOC: Cameca, I must speak with you. You are sad, Cameca. 
CAMECA: I have just lost all that is dear to my heart. 
AUTLOC: The same cloud hangs over us. The sunlight of the truth is darkened and I must know the reason for that darkness. 
CAMECA: Yours is a tragedy far greater than mine. 
AUTLOC: Yet we may help each other. Although I have lost my faith in our traditions, I keep my faith in you. 
CAMECA: And I in you, High Priest. 
AUTLOC: See this ornament? It proves the title to my dwelling house and all my wealth. You will take it to the one who guards Yetaxa's handmaiden. It will serve to turn his head away while you take the girl up to the temple. 
CAMECA: I shall do it. Where will you seek your truth? 
AUTLOC: In the wilderness, away from the influence of other men. 
CAMECA: You shall not search in vain. 
AUTLOC: And you, Cameca, be happy in the trust I place in you.

[Warriors hall]

(It's very crowded with all the guards) 
TONILA: May your sacrifice bring pleasure to the gods and peace to our lands. 
VICTIM: I thank Tonila for his many gratitudes. 
TONILA: I have come to escort you as you walk among the people before you find your destiny. 
SUSAN: What's to happen to us, Tonila? 
TONILA: You shall both be punished before the Perfect Victim goes to find his heaven. 
IXTA: I, Ixta, the Chosen Warrior, shall proudly lead you to your glory. 
VICTIM: May victory always rest upon your shoulders. 
IXTA: When we have reached the temple steps, bring them on. We shall have one more meeting, Ian. 
IAN: Yes, a final one.

[Temple]

(The pulley is being installed) 
BARBARA: Doctor, why won't you listen to me? 
DOCTOR: They're all busy at the ceremony and this is just the right time. 
BARBARA: But they'll be here at any moment. Don't you realise that? 
DOCTOR: Yes, now let me see. Oh, I think you ought to order Autloc to release Susan and Ian. 
BARBARA: What, in front of everybody? 
DOCTOR: Yes. It'll only take me a moment to open the doors and then we shall all dash through there and 
BARBARA: Shh. 
(He hides behind the throne and Barbara goes forward to stop whoever coming fully into the room) 
TLOTOXL: The procession has started. Are you ready to attend the ceremony? 
BARBARA: Where's Autloc? 
TLOTOXL: He will not be present. 
BARBARA: Why not? What have you done with him? 
TLOTOXL: I? Nothing. He has gone into the wilderness. 
BARBARA: When will he return? 
TLOTOXL: Never.

[Warriors hall]

CAPTAIN: I greet you, Cameca. 
CAMECA: Do you know this ornament? Autloc desires that it shall be yours. It is the title to his dwelling and all his possessions. 
CAPTAIN: Give it to me. 
CAMECA: You must earn it. 
CAPTAIN: How? 
CAMECA: Send away the warriors from outside this place. 
(The Captain goes outside) 
IAN: What are you doing? 
CAMECA: I've come to help you. It is important that the 
(The Captain returns and holds out his hand) 
CAMECA: As I give you this, so you shall close your eyes. Autloc desires that the handmaiden shall leave here with me. There is position and honour in this ornament. 
(The Captain has now got his back to Ian, so he gets knocked out with a double fisted blow) 
IAN: Well somebody had to make up his mind for him. 
(Cameca puts the ornament into the Captain's hand) 
CAMECA: Come, quickly. The handmaiden must come to the temple with me. 
IAN: Go on, Susan. 
(Ian takes the Captain's ceremonial helmet)

[Garden of Peace]

TONILA: The Perfect Victim stands before the people. 
TLOTOXL: The darkness approaches. Now here is the order of my plan. We shall despatch Ian and the girl, and then the sky will grow black. Then follows the Perfect Sacrifice. Then you and I, Tonila, will retire into the temple and bind the false Yetaxa. As light appears in the sky we shall again stand in our places. Autloc has gone into the wilderness. You shall be High Priest of Knowledge in his place. 
TONILA: I shall be at your side.

[Temple]

SUSAN [OC]: Grandfather! Grandfather. 
(She comes running in) 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear Susan. 
SUSAN: Where's Barbara? 
DOCTOR: She's in there. 
SUSAN: Barbara. Barbara? 
(Susan goes into the antechamber as Cameca enters) 
CAMECA: I honour Autloc's trust. I bring you your handmaiden. 
DOCTOR: That was a very brave thing for you to do, Cameca, but you can't stay here. 
CAMECA: I'd hoped I might stay by your side. Then think of me. Think of me.

[Warriors hall]

(The Captain is waking up, as Ixta discovers Autloc's ornament in his hand) 
TLOTOXL: Why do you delay? 
IXTA: He has betrayed us. Ian and the girl have gone. 
TLOTOXL: We dare not wait. The darkness will come and go. Sacrifice must be made! Kill him.

[Platform]

TONILA: Escort Yetaxa to the sacrificial altar. 
(The disguised Ian leads his men in, and they escort Barbara out again) 
TONILA: Go now and bring those who are to be punished. 
(The guards leave, but Ian stays behind Barbara) 
BARBARA: Where's Tlotoxl? The ceremony cannot begin without him. 
TONILA: He comes with the handmaiden. She shall be pierced with thorns. 
TLOTOXL: False goddess, you have betrayed us. I shall destroy you. 
(Tlotoxl goes to stab Barbara, but Ian grabs his arm) 
TLOTOXL: Ixta! Ixta! 
(Ixta is at the bottom of the temple pyramid, and has to make his way up) 
IAN: Run, Barbara. 
(Tlotoxl and Tonila flee while Ian stands guard and the Doctor, Susan and Barbara work the strap and pulley to open the door to the tomb) 
(Ixta arrives at the platform, the two warriors remove their ceremonial cloaks and have a club fight. Ixta soon has Ian on the defensive, but once Ian is on his back by the edge, he propels Ixta over the side with his feet. Ian takes off his helmet and goes to help the others)

[Temple]

IAN: It's opening! 
DOCTOR: Go! Quickly! 
(Ian takes the pulley with him) 
(Guards rush in but the door is already shut) 
TONILA: The darkness, Tlotoxl! 
TLOTOXL: Let them go.

[Platform]

(They go out onto the platform where the Perfect Victim has laid himself across the sacrificial stone. The eclipse reaches totality) 
TLOTOXL: Great God of the Sun and the Warriors, I, Tlotoxl, thank you for this victory. In your honour, let Perfect Sacrifice be made.

[Tomb]

BARBARA: We failed. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we did. We had to. 
BARBARA: What's the point of travelling through time and space if we can't change anything? Nothing. Tlotoxl had to win. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: And the one man I had respect for, I deceived. Poor Autloc. I gave him false hope and in the end he lost his faith. 
DOCTOR: He found another faith, a better, and that's the good you've done. You failed to save a civilisation, but at least you helped one man. 
(Barbara puts the ceremonial ornaments with Yetaxa's corpse and goes into the Tardis. The Doctor nearly leaves the gem that Cameca gave him, but changes his mind and puts it back in his pocket.

[Tardis]

(The Tardis has been travelling for some time. Everyone is in normal clothing again) 
IAN: What's the matter, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: We have a bit of a mystery, my boy. 
BARBARA: What sort of mystery? 
DOCTOR: My instruments. 
SUSAN: Yes. According to these controls here, we've stopped. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and those instruments say that we're still moving. 
IAN: Perhaps we've landed on top of something. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: Or inside something.

IAN: Perhaps we've landed on top of something. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: Or inside something. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? This says everything has stopped, but the ship. 
SUSAN: What did you mean, Barbara, inside something? 
IAN: Perhaps that's why we still appear to be moving. 
BARBARA: Try the scanner, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Covered with static. Let's try it again, Susan. 
(The screen is just streaks of static) 
IAN: That could be caused by an unsuppressed motor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, or a magnetic field. 
SUSAN: Shall we go outside, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: No, I shan't be happy until I've solved this little mystery. 
BARBARA: I don't know why we ever bother to leave the ship. 
DOCTOR: You're still thinking about the experiences you had with the Aztecs. 
BARBARA: No, I've got over that now. 
IAN: There's one thing about it, Doctor. We're certainly different from when we started out with you. 
SUSAN: That's funny. Grandfather and I were talking about that just before you came in. How you've both changed. 
BARBARA: Well we've all changed. 
SUSAN: Have I? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it all started out as a mild curiosity in a junkyard, and now it's turned out to be quite a, quite a great spirit of adventure, don't you think? 
IAN: Yes. We've had some pretty rough times and even that doesn't stop us. It's a wonderful thing, this ship of yours, Doctor. Taken us back to prehistoric times, the Daleks. 
SUSAN: Marco Polo, Marinus. 
BARBARA: And the Aztecs. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and that extraordinary quarrel I had with that English king, Henry the Eighth. You know, he threw a parson's nose at me. 
BARBARA: What did you do? 
DOCTOR: Threw it back, of course. Take them to the Tower, he said. That's why I did it. 
BARBARA: Why? 
SUSAN: The Tardis was inside the Tower. 
DOCTOR: Of course, it was long before you appeared on the scene. However, now, let us get back to this little problem. Open the door, Susan. 
IAN: Have you checked everything, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. Plenty of fresh air, temperature normal. 
BARBARA: Oh, just the unknown, then. 
DOCTOR: Precisely.

[Control room]

(They walk out into a room with people in uniform sitting in chairs, very still) 
IAN: You were right, Barbara. We have landed in something. 
DOCTOR: It's a spaceship. Close the door, Susan. Let us be careful. There's been some kind of catastrophe here. 
(Ian takes the pulse of one man. He's intact, flexible, but) 
IAN: Dead. 
SUSAN: This one's a girl. 
BARBARA: I'm afraid she's the same. What could have happened? I can't see a wound or anything. 
IAN: Suffocation, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I never make uninformed guesses, my friend, but certainly that's one answer. Oh, dear, dear, dear, what a tragedy you know. She's only a few years older than Susan. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, let's go back to the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Why? 
SUSAN: I don't know. I've got a feeling about this. 
BARBARA: Yes, I can sense something too. 
IAN: You mean that whatever it was killed them could kill us? 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, have you noticed anything about this watch? (and the man's) Neither of them are working. These are the non-winding type. A movement of the wrist recharges the spring inside for twenty four hours. 
IAN: Yes, and they both stopped at about three o'clock. 
DOCTOR: Yes, then suppose we say that they've only just stopped. Now that would mean that the last movement of their wrists would be at least twenty four hours ago. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, he's still warm. 
BARBARA: Then they've only just died. 
DOCTOR: It doesn't make sense, does it. But the facts are all here. I think it would be wise if we returned to the ship and left these people. There's nothing we can do for them. 
BARBARA: No, we can't even bury them. 
DOCTOR: Come along, open the door, Susan. 
(The man groans and slumps forward over his desk) 
IAN: His heart had stopped beating, Doctor. He was dead. 
MAITLAND: (something) 
IAN: What do you want? Yes? 
MAITLAND: Over there. 
IAN: Where? There? 
MAITLAND: Behind you. 
IAN: Here? 
MAITLAND: No, on the left. 
IAN: What, this? (a metal box) 
MAITLAND: Yes, that. 
(Ian gives it to him, and a heartbeat starts up) 
MAITLAND: Carol. Place this against Carol's chest. 
BARBARA: I'm sorry, Carol's dead. 
MAITLAND: Please, do as I ask. 
(The heartbeat sound and she wakes up) 
IAN: You were both dead. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, what was in that box? 
MAITLAND: It's a heart resuscitator. When you found us, we were in a very long sleep, but we weren't dead. My name is Maitland. This is Carol Richmond, my co-astronaut. 
DOCTOR: Tell me, are you from the Earth? 
MAITLAND: Yes. 
BARBARA: So are we. How's it looking? 
CAROL: The Earth, do you mean? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
CAROL: Still too much air traffic. 
IAN: They got it off the roads, did they? 
MAITLAND: You might say that, yes. 
IAN: Barbara and I, we come from London. Tell me, is Big Ben still on time? 
MAITLAND: What century do you come from? The twenty first, perhaps? 
BARBARA: No, the twentieth. 
MAITLAND: I see. 
CAROL: What's Big Ben? 
BARBARA: Well, it's a clock. Near Westminster Abbey. 
MAITLAND: Yes, you see, the whole lower half of England is called Central City now. There hasn't been a London for four hundred years. We come from the twenty eighth century. 
CAROL: Captain Maitland, these people must leave immediately. 
MAITLAND: Yes, you will have to. 
IAN: But there are so many things we want to know. 
MAITLAND: There's only danger here for you. You must go. 
BARBARA: Danger? What sort of danger? 
MAITLAND: It's better that you don't know what happened to us. 
BARBARA: But we might be able to help you. 
DOCTOR: No. No, Barbara. I learned not to meddle in other people's affairs years ago. (Ian laughs) Now, now, now, don't be absurd. There's not an ounce of curiosity in me, my dear boy. Tell me, why are you in danger? 
MAITLAND: Very well, I'll try to explain. Out there is a planet we call the Sensphere. The creatures on it, the Sensorites, have always prevented us from leaving this area of space. 
DOCTOR: You mean they have some kind of power over your craft. 
MAITLAND: Exactly. But it's not that simple. They not only control our craft, they have some influence over us as well. 
DOCTOR: Hypnosis, do you mean? 
MAITLAND: No, I do not mean hypnosis. 
DOCTOR: Well, what then? 
MAITLAND: Somehow they have some control over our brains. They are hostile, these Sensorites, but in the strangest possible way. They won't let us leave this area of space yet they don't attempt to kill us. 
SUSAN: What had happened when we found you? 
CAROL: The same thing that's happened many times before. The Sensorites have put us into a deep sleep that gives the appearance of death, and yet they've never made any actual effort to destroy us. 
MAITLAND: Far from it. We both have very hazy recollections of them returning from time to time to our ship to actually feed us. 
IAN: Doesn't add up at all. 
CAROL: This is why you must leave us at once. 
MAITLAND: Yes. The Sensorites may try to prevent you from leaving. 
(An alien hand holds a device over the Tardis lock) 
BARBARA: I can smell something burning. 
SUSAN: So can I. 
MAITLAND: You mustn't delay any longer. 
IAN: I'm inclined to agree with him, Doctor. But surely there's something we can do for you? 
MAITLAND: No. Nobody can help us. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, couldn't we take them back with us? 
MAITLAND: We cannot leave this ship. 
CAROL: You see, there's John to think of too. 
DOCTOR: John? 
BARBARA: Ian, there is something burning. 
IAN: Yes, I think you're right. Maitland, you wouldn't have anything shorting, would you? 
MAITLAND: No, that's not possible. 
(Amid smoke, the alien hand withdraws the Tardis lock mechanism from the door) 
BARBARA: It seems to be coming from over here. 
DOCTOR: You have additional crew, I take it? 
CAROL: Yes. 
MAITLAND: Doctor, you must go. Leave us. 
DOCTOR: Well, it seems to me that there's nothing else I can do. Goodbye, my friend. Bye, bye, my child. Come along, Susan. 
SUSAN: Goodbye. 
BARBARA: It's stronger over here, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Perhaps it's coming from inside the Tardis. 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
DOCTOR: Good gracious! They've taken the lock! 
SUSAN: It's not so much the lock, it's the opening mechanism. The door's permanently locked! 
IAN: Permanently? But there must be some way of getting in? What can we do, Doctor? Break down the door? 
DOCTOR: And disturb the field dimensions inside the Tardis? We dare not. We've been most effectively shut out. 
BARBARA: The Sensorites? 
DOCTOR: Who else? 
SUSAN: What do they want with us? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. And why have they kept those other two in captivity, hmm? 
(the ship shakes) 
CAROL: The Sensorites! Get back! Get away! 
IAN: Must get up the other end. 
DOCTOR: What is happening, my friend? Can't you control the ship? 
MAITLAND: I'm powerless. The Sensorites are stronger than I am. 
DOCTOR: Which is your parallel thrust? 
MAITLAND: There. 
DOCTOR: Right. Velocity, Chesterton. Check velocity. 
IAN: It's not even on the unit marker, Doctor. 
MAITLAND: Don't try and control the spacecraft. It's suicide, I tell you. 
DOCTOR: Please go away. 
IAN: The velocity needle's hitting the red, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Right, stabilisers, Maitland. 
(The ship stops shaking) 
DOCTOR: Oh, at last. At last. The ship was rolling about on its axis. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, look! We're heading straight for it. 
CAROL: It's the Sense-Sphere. 
DOCTOR: Where's your deflection rays? Maitland! Deflection rays. 
MAITLAND: There, the white panel. But it's useless. 
DOCTOR: Well, we'll see about that. We'll see about that. Reading, please. 
CAROL: Mach three, braking one. 
IAN: Nineteen miles to the nearest point of impact. 
CAROL: Closing fast. 
SUSAN: Barbara, we're going to hit. We're going to hit! 
CAROL: Lifting slightly. 
MAITLAND: You're on collision course. 
DOCTOR: Jet. Jet course. Port. Now. 
IAN: Velocity still rising. 
DOCTOR: Jet reverse. Starboard. Now. 
CAROL: Increasing to mach four. Heading straight for point of impact. 
IAN: The altitude is still falling. 
CAROL: Mach four. 
DOCTOR: Barbara, see that panel? Check status. Three lights normal. 
BARBARA: Yes. Three lights on. 
DOCTOR: Boost engines. Forward thrust and lock. 
(The planet fills the viewscreen, then they veer off to the left) 
MAITLAND: Why couldn't I do it? 
(later) 
DOCTOR: Well, my friend, are you feeling better? 
MAITLAND: Yes, my head's much clearer. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I rather fancy that's settled that little bit of solution. You know, I think these Sensorites have found a way to take control of your minds. 
IAN: Do you think they were deliberately trying to kill us, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: No, no, I don't. I think it was an exercise in fear and power. 
CAROL: Yes, but for some reason or other your minds aren't open to them. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and you found a way to resist them, whereas Maitland here, his power to resist was taken from him. 
MAITLAND: I was afraid. 
IAN: You weren't afraid. They just made you hopeless. 
DOCTOR: Yes, they're dangerous and cunning, these people. But that's not all. Things are very strange here. You know, they can control, they can frighten and yet they don't attempt to kill you. Furthermore, they feed you and keep you alive. All this is most extraordinary. 
IAN: Yes. Talking about food, I shall be glad when we eat. How's it coming along? 
BARBARA: All right. Be ready in a minute. 
SUSAN: Iron rations a la carte. 
CAROL: Well, from the size of our stocks, they've obviously been giving us their own food. 
BARBARA: What about water, Carol? 
CAROL: Down there on the right. 
BARBARA: Right, we'll find it. 
DOCTOR: Tell me, have either of you ever met any of these creatures or seen them? 
CAROL: John has. 
IAN: Ah, he's the other member of your crew, isn't he. 
MAITLAND: Yes, our mineralogist. 
DOCTOR: I'd like to have a talk with him. 
MAITLAND: I'm afraid that's out of the question. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Why not? 
MAITLAND: I'd rather not talk about it. 
(Barbara and Susan walk past the tank marked water to a hatch) 
BARBARA: I suppose she meant the water was through this door. Let's try it. 
SUSAN: I can't see any handle on the door. Try this. That doesn't work. 
(then she spots the electric eye and waves her hand in front of it. The hatch opens) 
SUSAN: That's funny. Oh, I see, it's the ray. I must have broken the connection. 
BARBARA: Let's get that water. I'm dying of thirst. 
SUSAN: Yes, so am I.

[Corridor]

(They step through the hatch) 
BARBARA: Well, down here on the right, she said. 
(And another hand shuts the hatch behind them. It belongs to a shuffling man with a glazed expression)

[Cabin]

(The women find a small room) 
BARBARA: I don't think we should stay in here. 
SUSAN: (picking up a book) Hey, this is bliss. 
BARBARA: I wonder where that water is? 
SUSAN: I don't know. 
BARBARA: Shh. Listen. 
(The shuffling footsteps come closer)

[Control room]

IAN: Don't you see? John may be able to give us some valuable information. 
CAROL: I told you. You can't see him. 
DOCTOR: You're both being rather secretive. 
IAN: Where are the others? 
(Maitland rushes to the hatch and tries to open it) 
MAITLAND: We should have warned them. 
IAN: What is it? What's wrong? 
CAROL: The door's been locked on the other side. Quickly. They're in danger. We must get in from the other end.

[Corridor]

MAITLAND: This way. This is the other way through. 
CAROL: Oh, it's no use. The ray's been jammed on the other side. 
MAITLAND: I'm sorry, Ian. There's nothing we can do. 
IAN: But what is it? What's wrong? What's going on inside there? 
MAITLAND: It's no use, no use. 
IAN: Barbara! Susan! 
CAROL: No! No, please. No! 
IAN: Are there Sensorites in there?

[Cabin]

(The shuffling man comes right up to Barbara and Susan, they step to one side and he falls over. They run back down the corridor but the hatch doesn't open for them. They duck into a store room instead)

[Store room]

(The man comes in as they hide behind the filing cabinet, and starts crying, then staggers out again without seeing them)

[Control room]

CAROL: We must find out about John. 
MAITLAND: We've been over this a hundred times before, Carol. 
CAROL: But the other times were different. The Sensorites made our decisions for us. 
MAITLAND: As far as we know they still do. 
CAROL: But the Doctor and the others showed us we can resist them. We can! It's only fear that makes us weak, that's all. 
MAITLAND: That may be so, but we mustn't go in there, Carol. It's too dangerous. 
CAROL: What you really mean is, I mustn't go in there. You're afraid for me, aren't you? 
MAITLAND: I know what John means to you. 
CAROL: The last time I saw him, he didn't even know my name. I must see him. I must find out. Besides, there are the girls. 
MAITLAND: All right. 
IAN: Maitland, you must get that door opened. 
MAITLAND: Yes, I'll have to cut round the lock. 
IAN: All right, well get on with it. 
MAITLAND: I'll get the machine rigged up. 
IAN: Carol, tell me. What is it that you're both afraid of? 
CAROL: John's in there with your friends. He and I were going to get married when we got back to the Earth. The Sensorites attacked him far more than Captain Maitland and me. I had to sit there helplessly and watch him get worse and worse. 
IAN: You mean they've taken over his mind. 
CAROL: Yes. 
IAN: What's it done to him? Carol, you've got to tell me. 
CAROL: He'll be frightened of strangers. He may become violent.

[Corridor]

(Barbara and Susan sneak out of the storage room, but don't see John leaning against the wall. He pushes a lever then shuffles after them. They cannot open any other doors. Just as they think he's going to attack them, he falls to his knees) 
SUSAN: He's crying. 
JOHN: Who are you? You look like my sister. Have you come to help me? Four years. 
BARBARA: Are you one of the crew of the spaceship? You want to tell me something? About yourself? 
SUSAN: Is he trying to say he's ill? 
JOHN: Yes. Ill. 
BARBARA: (comforting him) Don't be afraid. We'll take care of you. 
SUSAN: What do you think happened to him, Barbara?

[Control room]

(Maitland is cutting into the door with a sonic device) 
IAN: Where's the power come from? 
MAITLAND: Electro-magnectics. We should be to the locks very soon. 
IAN: You say you haven't seen John for months? 
CAROL: He was dangerous once the Sensorites got at his brain. 
DOCTOR: Can't you go faster? Susan's in there. 
MAITLAND: It won't be long now. 
(There's a noise, Maitland stops) 
DOCTOR: Now what is it? Get on with the job, please. 
MAITLAND: Listen, don't you hear it? I thought there was something else. 
IAN: You mean that high-pitched whine? Is that it? 
MAITLAND: Sensorites. 
CAROL: They must be near. That noise is caused by the machines that carry them through space. 
MAITLAND: Carol, get back to your instruments. Doctor, would you take the controller seat? 
DOCTOR: Anything but this awful waiting. 
IAN: What about Barbara and Susan.
MAITLAND: There's no time now. Look for glowing lights on the move about the ship. 
IAN: How will they attack us? 
MAITLAND: They won't. Not in the normal way. 
IAN: Then how can we defend ourselves. 
MAITLAND: You'll find out soon enough. Look out there. There they are! See them moving? 
IAN: Yes, but they look miles away. 
MAITLAND: It won't take them long to get here. 
IAN: How long do you think it'll take them, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. They must have made the journey before. They were here before, remember? They took away the lock mechanism from my ship. 
IAN: Yes. Probably took it back to their own planet. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and now they're coming back, with what orders? To take over our minds? Hmm? Or to kill us?

[Corridor]

BARBARA: Do you hear that? 
SUSAN: It's coming from outside. 
BARBARA: No, you need rest. There's nothing wrong. 
JOHN: I'll protect you. 
BARBARA: Yes. All right. You'll protect us.

[Control room]

IAN: Would it be a good idea to move? 
MAITLAND: Where to? We already know we can't leave this area of space. 
IAN: All the same, I think 
MAITLAND: Anyway, we're not going to be destroyed. Had the Sensorites intended that, they would have done so long ago. 
IAN: If that collision course was their idea of a joke, I'd hate to be one of their enemies. 
CAROL: They wouldn't really try to crash us. They just keep on playing this game of nerves. 
DOCTOR: What's that noise? 
MAITLAND: Yes, we always hear that. 
CAROL: Interference now on all our scans. 
MAITLAND: Now remember, all of you, no violence unless the Sensorites start it first. 
IAN: Why no violence? Surely we've got the right to protect ourselves? DOCTOR: My dear Chesterton. It's our minds that they take over, so we must presume that the brain is all important. Now let our own intelligence be our own defence, and attack. 
(It goes quiet) 
CAROL: I can sense them all around us now. 
MAITLAND: Shh. 
IAN: Doctor. Doctor. 
(A bulbous-headed humanoid is gazing at them from the outside of the ship)

Episode Two - The Unwilling Warriors

[Control room]

DOCTOR: Steady, Chesterton. The calmer you are, the stronger. 
IAN: Doctor, look at these two. 
DOCTOR: Maitland. Maitland! Can you hear me? Fear, my boy. It's loosened his mind. It gives the Sensorites a chance to control it. 
IAN: Doctor, that thing's still out there. 
DOCTOR: Oh, ignore it. Maitland! 
MAITLAND: Yes. I hear you. 
DOCTOR: There's work to be done, my boy. Work. Understand? 
MAITLAND: Work. 
IAN: He's responding. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a door to be opened. 
MAITLAND: A door? Yes. 
DOCTOR: Danger on the other side. 
MAITLAND: John. Yes, we must get the two girls out. 
DOCTOR: Good, good, good.

[Corridor]

BARBARA: All we want you to do is open the door. 
JOHN: No. I'll protect you. 
SUSAN: But our friends are out there. 
JOHN: They're dead. All dead. 
BARBARA: But we were just with them. 
SUSAN: Just a few minutes ago. What is it? 
JOHN: They're here. Inside here. 
BARBARA: John, open the door. 
JOHN: Frighten them? No, I can't do that. No. No. 
SUSAN: Somebody's talking to him. Inside his mind. 
JOHN: No, don't force me. You can't. I won't do it. My head! Pain. (unintelligible) 
SUSAN: Somebody's ordering him to do something, I know they are. Something to harm us.

[Control room]

(At the hatchway) 
MAITLAND: I'll have to use the cutter. 
IAN: Oh, not again. How long will this take? 
MAITLAND: It's the only way. 
IAN: Yes, I know. Just that I'm so worried about Barbara and Susan. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now. Try and contain your emotions. Use self-control. Otherwise it confuses the brain and leaves it wide open to an attack by the Sensorites. Look at Maitland here. Fear and inertia left him vulnerable. 
IAN: Yes, it's true enough, Doctor. 
CAROL: The Sensorites are in the ship now. 
IAN: What? How did they get here? 
CAROL: Through the loading bay. 
DOCTOR: But that can't be where Barbara and Susan are now? 
CAROL: No, but we must get to them as soon as possible. 
IAN: Nobody's arguing about that. 
DOCTOR: But that man John's with them. 
CAROL: The Sensorites have control over John's mind. They may force him to obey their orders. 
IAN: How's it coming. 
MAITLAND: Slowly, but it's working. 
IAN: If only we knew what was happening on the other side of this door. Barbara! Susan!

[Corridor]

(They can hear Ian thumping on the hatch) 
SUSAN: Listen. It's coming from outside. 
BARBARA: Yes, I can just hear it. It must be Ian trying to get through. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
JOHN: Give me your hand. They want me to frighten you. I mustn't give way. 
SUSAN: He's so tense, Barbara. Can't we help him? 
BARBARA: John, we're not afraid. 
JOHN: You're not afraid? 
BARBARA: Not while we have you to protect us. 
SUSAN: It's quiet and peaceful here. There's no real danger. 
JOHN: The Sensorites. 
BARBARA: We're your friends, John. 
JOHN: Friends. No, they are my friends! 
SUSAN: Barbara, I've got an idea. 
BARBARA: What? 
SUSAN: He's quiet now, but we can't be sure the Sensorites won't make him help them. Look, if they can use their brains, why can't we use ours? 
BARBARA: To defend him? 
SUSAN: Yes, and ourselves. Grandfather and I landed on a planet once called Esto. The plants there used thought transference. If you stood in between two of the plants, they set up a sort of screeching noise. Grandfather said it was because they were aware of another mind. 
BARBARA: Breaking in on their communications. 
SUSAN: Yes, exactly. I thought if we both tried together. 
BARBARA: Well anything's better than just sitting here. 
JOHN: Sensorites! They're near us now. 
SUSAN: You see? If we both think of the same thing at the same time. 
BARBARA: What do you mean? We defy you. Something like that? 
SUSAN: Yes. Yes, we defy you. We've got to picture the words very clearly in our minds. We must both concentrate very hard. Ready? 
BARBARA: Yes. When I count to five. One, (cut to Sensorites) four, five. 
(The Sensorites clutch their big heads in pain, then Susan faints)

[Control room]

(Maitland starts to lift the hatch) 
MAITLAND: Oh, it's jammed. I'll have to cut the whole section out. 
IAN: We can't wait. I'll give you a hand. Ready? 
MAITLAND: That's it. 
IAN: It's going. 
(And they push the hatch door up and open, and go in)
(Later - ) 
DOCTOR: Yes, it might be possible for Susan's thoughts to reach out to the Sensorites. 
CAROL: So we really can resist them? 
DOCTOR: Yes. And there's that friend of yours, you know. John. We must look after him. Let me see now. Of course, they have a hold of his mind, you know. 
CAROL: He's sleeping peacefully now. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder. Did Susan release the pressure? 
SUSAN: I had hundreds of voices in my mind, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and that was a dangerous thing to do, child. Because you were strong-willed and without fear, they didn't harm you. 
MAITLAND: He's resting now. Did you know his hair was almost white? 
DOCTOR: There's nothing wrong with that. 
MAITLAND: In a man of thirty, Doctor? And he looks so old. Why have the Sensorites done this?	 What do they want from us? 
DOCTOR: I 
IAN: Doctor. John muttered something just now, before he passed out. Sounded like, the dreams of avarice. Now, on Earth we have a saying. Rich beyond the dreams of avarice. I think he's discovered something. Would explain why he's had the worst of it from the Sensorites. 
DOCTOR: Yes. What were John's duties? 
MAITLAND: He's our mineralogist. 
IAN: You see? Makes sense. John mumbling something about riches. I think he must have discovered something that the Sensorites wanted to keep secret, so they silenced him and kept all of you prisoners about their planet. 
DOCTOR: I see. And now they're trying to do the same to us. We must get the lock of the Tardis back. Have you tried talking to them? 
MAITLAND: Talking to them? 
DOCTOR: Yes, we must try. We must.

[Loading bay]

(The Sensorites look the same, with beards that grow upwards to hide their mouths) 
SENSORITE 1: (soft-spoken, holding a microphone to his forehead) The first elder is communicating. Be alert while I listen. Yes. The first elder is interested in human voice that said we defy you. 
SENSORITE 2: (a deeper voice) The human creatures who are newly arrived seem to possess more intelligence than the others. 
SENSORITE 1: The first elder said that they have less fear of us. We are to stay here and watch, and listen to them closely. If they try to attack us with force, we are to summon our warriors to destroy them.

[Control room]

MAITLAND: One spectroscope, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: So I see. 
CAROL: I do remember he was beginning to take a reading of the minerals in the vicinity. 
BARBARA: And then what happened? 
CAROL: That was the first time the Sensorites attacked us. 
DOCTOR: Would you like to look at that graph for a moment? 
IAN: Yes. Oh, there's nothing much here. Very ordinary collection of things. Oxygen, hydrogen, sodium. 
SUSAN: What's that? 
IAN: It's a spectrograph, Susan. You see these lines? They represent the emission wavelengths. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes, of course. 
IAN: No, there certainly isn't anything very special indicated on this. 
CAROL: You're very strange people. 
SUSAN: Are we? 
CAROL: Well, you've come from nowhere and you seem to be going nowhere. 
BARBARA: We're very dependant on the Doctor. He leads and we follow. 
CAROL: Travel without a purpose? 
BARBARA: Oh, no, there's a purpose in it. He's trying to get us back to our own time. On Earth. 
CAROL: Oh, I see. 
SUSAN: Isn't' it a better thing to travel hopefully than arrive? 
CAROL: Anything's better than circling round a planet for ever and being kept alive. Alive. It's been more like a living death. 
DOCTOR: (having looked through a notebook) I just don't understand. There must be a clue here somewhere. There must be. 
IAN: Well I don't know, Doctor. Certainly isn't here. 
MAITLAND: I studied it whenever I could, but it didn't look like anything that would cause much excitement. The Sensphere is just an ordinary planet with a slightly bigger land mass than usual, but that's all. 
DOCTOR: Yes. That's very interesting. May I? 
MAITLAND: Certainly. 
DOCTOR: Excuse me. 
SUSAN: I know the Sensorites have discovered thought transference. 
BARBARA: Yes. And when John discovered something, he became so excited that his mind opened up and broadcast it to the Sensorites. And it was something they wanted kept a secret. 
DOCTOR: What? What is this? What was it Chesterton said? Rich beyond the dreams of avarice. Yes. Of course. Of course! I know what he found. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: Molybdenum. It's here, in the graph, but it's all mixed up with the lines so it doesn't make obvious reading. 
IAN: Molybdenum? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
MAITLAND: It resists very high temperatures. 
DOCTOR: Yes. It's used as an alloy in steel. In fact this machine would be useless without it. Now let me see. Iron melts at one thousand five hundred and thirty nine decrees centigrade, and molybdenum melts at two thousand six hundred and twenty two degrees centigrade. So, you know, we've some idea. Yes, I see now just what John found. I wonder if he was excited. Yes, that planet must be full of it. Full of it! It's a veritable gold mine! 
(Maitland and Carol clutch their heads) 
MAITLAND: Sensorites! 
CAROL: They're here. On the ship. 
IAN: Come on, Barbara. Let's find them.

[Corridor]

(They go quietly past where John is sleeping, through a room into another corridor, then up to a door) 
BARBARA: Where do you suppose this leads? 
IAN: I don't know. Let's find out. Needn't come if you don't want to. 
BARBARA: Nonsense. 
(Ian waves his hand in front of the electric eye, the door opens)

[Room]

(The Sensorites step out in front of them. Ian grabs a metal tool from a cupboard) 
IAN: Open the door. 
(Barbara does so and they back out again)

[Corridor]

IAN: Go and find Maitland. Ask him how to lock these doors. 
BARBARA: But Ian. 
IAN: Go on. Don't worry about me. Go on. 
(The door opens and the Sensorites step out. Ian keeps backing away, into another room)

[Control room]

BARBARA: Just tell me, how do we lock the doors? Please, try and concentrate. 
DOCTOR: The sick member of the crew. Try him. 
BARBARA: He'll be in no condition to help. 
DOCTOR: Do as I say.

[John's room]

BARBARA: John. Show me how to lock the doors. The Sensorites are on the ship. We must stop them.

[Corridor]

(She helps him out into the corridor as Ian is backing into it. Ian raises his weapon) 
BARBARA: Ian, no. 
IAN: Why not? How else can I keep these creatures off? 
BARBARA: Well, do you need to keep them off? Have they actually attacked you? Come on, John. Lock the door. 
(John waves his hand in front of a lower electric eye) 
JOHN: They can't open now. 
BARBARA: It's strange they didn't harm you. 
JOHN: No. 
IAN: I think they were as frightened of me as I was of them. 
BARBARA: They're not very aggressive, are they. 
IAN: No. 
BARBARA: Come on, let's get back to the others. 
IAN: The others! The other way! The Sensorites can get through that way!

[Control room]

MAITLAND: It's beginning to clear now. 
(Ian dashes through to the other hatchway and waves at the electric eye) 
BARBARA: Bolt the door, John. Bolt it. 
IAN: Now we'll see what the Sensorites can do. 
(What they can do is hold a device to the electric eye, and the door just swings open again. But they decide not to open the main hatch door) 
DOCTOR: This is all very well, but I think we should try and contact them. 
BARBARA: Are you two feeling better now? 
MAITLAND: Much better. 
CAROL: Oh, I don't know what happened, but I'm certainly feeling better now. 
(The Sensorites are using their communications devices. Susan twitches and jumps) 
IAN: I'm sure it's no coincidence that the Sensorites attacked you as soon as you discovered molybdenum. 
SUSAN: Yes, but they won't agree to that. 
DOCTOR: Agree? To what? What are you talking about, child? 
SUSAN: I'm sure they'll talk to you about it. 
BARBARA: Susan, what is it? 
SUSAN: All right, I'll ask them. I'll tell you later. The Sensorites want to know if it's all right for them to talk to you. 
IAN: Are you saying that you're in 
DOCTOR: Are you saying you've made contact with them? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Well of course we shall see them, but they must agree not to harm us. 
SUSAN: Right. 
DOCTOR: If they try to harm us then I shall fight them. 
(Susan silently relays the message, then opens the main hatch door. The Sensorites step in) 
SENSORITE 1: Which one is the Doctor? 
SENSORITE 2: The one with the white hair. 
DOCTOR: Speak up. I can't hear you. 
SENSORITE 1: We have been speaking to each other. 
DOCTOR: What is it you want of us? Why don't you let these space people go back to their Earth, hmm? 
SENSORITE 2: None of you can ever again leave the area of the Sensphere. 
IAN: Why not? 
SENSORITE 1: You know the answer to that. 
IAN: Because of molybdenum. We are not interested in it. 
SENSORITE 2: So you say, but once before we trusted Earth men, to our cost. 
DOCTOR: So Earth men have visited the Sensphere. 
SENSORITE 1: Yes, and they caused us a fearful affliction. We shall not allow it to happen again. 
MAITLAND: What do you expect us to do? Drift around for ever? 
SENSORITE 1: No, you must all come back with us. A special area has been prepared for you on the Sensphere. There you will live, and there you will be looked after. 
DOCTOR: These people cannot possibly accede to your request. It's out of the question. 
SENSORITE 2: You will do exactly as we tell you because you have no choice. None of you. 
DOCTOR: My party does have a choice, and I assure you we have no intention of spending the rest of our lives with you. 
IAN: Well, you have our answer. What do you propose to do? 
SENSORITE 1: We intend taking you down to the Sensphere, but we do not wish to harm you in any way. 
IAN: Since we've met you, we have no wish to harm you either, but you must get off this ship. 
SENSORITE 1: What if we refuse? 
IAN: We will attack you. 
SENSORITE 1: The other Earth people will not be able to help you. 
BARBARA: Surely we've proved that we don't need help. 
SENSORITE 2: You have only proved that you can lock doors. We can unlock them. 
DOCTOR: Now listen to me, both of you. You've taken the lock of my ship and I want it returned immediately. 
SENSORITE 1: You're in no position to threaten us. 
DOCTOR: I don't make threats. But I do keep promises. And I promise you I shall cause you more trouble than you bargained for if you don't return my property! 
SENSORITE 2: We must decide what we shall do. 
(The Sensorites leave) 
BARBARA: What do they mean, decide? 
IAN: I don't know. Sounds as though there's something else they can do to us. 
DOCTOR: So they might have been referring to Susan. 
SUSAN: The Sensorites only spoke to me through my 
DOCTOR: Next time, if there is a next time, they might try and control your mind, my child. Like they've done to these two people. 
MAITLAND: Doctor, is there no way you can get into your own ship? 
DOCTOR: No, not unless they return what they stole from my ship. 
CAROL: But they'll never give it back to you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, they're not invincible. Oh, no, no, no. Did any of you notice the peculiarity in their eyes? 
MAITLAND: No, I can't say I did. 
DOCTOR: It's a fallacy, of course, that cats can see in the dark. They can't. But they can see better than we humans, because the iris of their eyes dilates at night. Yes. 
IAN: What are you driving at, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's all perfectly simple, Chesterton. You see, the Sensorites eyes are the exact opposite to that of a cat. The Sensorites eyes were completely dilated, that is, enormous, in light. 
IAN: The conclusion being that they would contract in darkness. 
DOCTOR: Exactly. And that is our best weapon. The Sensorites will be frightened of the dark. 
SUSAN: You can't be sure of that. You're only sure they can't see in the dark. 
DOCTOR: I very much doubt, my child, whether they can see in the semi-darkness. 
BARBARA: But Doctor, assuming you're right 
IAN: Which he is, of course.  
DOCTOR: Naturally. 
BARBARA: Well, how can you be sure that the Sensorites will be frightened of the dark? 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara, wouldn't you be afraid if you couldn't see your enemies, hmm? Thank you for your admiration, dear boy. Thank you. 
IAN: I never said a word. 
DOCTOR: Telepathy. You know, telepathy isn't only a prerequisite of the Sensorites. I know sometimes what you're thinking. 
SUSAN: Don't want to go. 
DOCTOR: My dear. What? 
BARBARA: They're talking to her again. 
IAN: What are they saying? 
SUSAN: Shh. I can't hear them very well. Oh, that's better. There's just one voice a long way away. 
DOCTOR: Well, what's the message, child? 
SUSAN: Oh. Oh, all right. But none of the others must be harmed. Don't move, any of you. Grandfather, it was the only way. They knew I'd agree. 
DOCTOR: Agree? To what? 
SUSAN: To go down with them to their planet, otherwise we'll all be killed. 
(and the Sensorites close the hatch door behind them)

Episode Three - Hidden Danger

BARBARA: Susan mustn't go with them. 
DOCTOR: There can't be air outside the spaceship. 
MAITLAND: You can't stop them. 
DOCTOR: We must! 
IAN: Come with me, Barbara. 
CAROL: Don't. They'll only harm her or kill her if you try and interfere. 
IAN: And if we do nothing, she'll die. 
BARBARA: Do you intend to try out the Doctor's theory that they can't see in the dark? 
IAN: Why not? It's all we have.

[Corridor]

SENSORITE 1: Go back. 
SUSAN: Don't interfere, please. 
SENSORITE 1: The young girl has agreed to go with us. She will not be harmed. Why do you follow us now? 
BARBARA: She must not go with you. 
SENSORITE 2: They are not carrying any weapons, yet I am frightened of them. 
SENSORITE 1: Do not come any nearer. 
IAN: We want to talk to you. 
SENSORITE 2: We have no wish to harm you in any way. 
IAN: I said talk, not fight. 
SENSORITE 2: Intruders from other planets always say they wish to talk, but all they mean to do is destroy. 
SUSAN: Ian, please let me go with them. Because I can use telepathy, they trust me. 
BARBARA: You're not going with them, Susan, and that's final. 
SUSAN: Why? It's suspicion that's making them enemies. You don't understand the Sensorites. 
DOCTOR: Do you think I don't understand? Trust is a two-sided affair. 
SUSAN: You're putting us all in danger. 
DOCTOR: If you go with them, then they will have all the advantage. 
SUSAN: But they only want to talk to me. 
DOCTOR: I'm sorry, Susan, but I don't believe you have the ability to represent us. That's all. 
SUSAN: Stop treating me like a child. 
DOCTOR: You will do as you're told, Susan. Come here. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Grandfather, I can't do it. 
DOCTOR: This instant! 
(Susan steps forward) 
SENSORITE 1: We must stun them with the hand rays. 
DOCTOR: Now, Chesterton. 
(Ian switches the lights off, and in the twilight the Sensorites drop their weapons and flail about) 
IAN: You were absolutely right, Doctor. They're helpless in the dark. 
(Ian picks up the weapons) 
DOCTOR: Susan, go and join Carol. Wait there. I want to talk to you. 
SENSORITE 2: Give us back the light. 
SENSORITE 1: The light, the light. I'm afraid. Afraid. Please, help us. 
DOCTOR: Put on the light, Chesterton. You could have been left here in the darkness. We have power over you, but we don't intend to use it. Only in our defence. 
SENSORITE 1: What do you want? 
DOCTOR: Nothing that isn't ours. 
IAN: You stole the lock from our ship. You also threatened to take us prisoner. 
SENSORITE 1: We must ask for new orders. 
DOCTOR: What's that? Speak up! 
SENSORITE 1: I must refer this matter to the Sensphere. 
DOCTOR: Well? 
SENSORITE 2: You must be patient. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I won't put up with this nonsense. If they try anything, put the light out again. 
IAN: All right, I will. 
DOCTOR: Dictated to by petty thieves and my own grandchild! 
IAN: I wonder what that thing is that they put up to their foreheads, Barbara. Do you think if we did it, we could read each other's minds? Hey, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Sorry, I was thinking. You know, I've never seen the Doctor so angry. 
IAN: Oh, yes. Susan set him off, didn't she. The Sensorites must have hypnotised her in some way. 
BARBARA: No, I don't think so. She's just growing up, Ian.

[Control room]

DOCTOR: What is all this, setting yourself against me, hmm? 
SUSAN: I didn't, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I know you thought you were doing your best, child, in the circumstances, but I think I'm a better judge of that. 
SUSAN: Well, I have opinions too. 
DOCTOR: My dear girl, the one purpose in growing old is to accumulate knowledge and wisdom, and to help other people. 
SUSAN: So I'm to be treated like a silly little child. 
DOCTOR: If you behave like one, yes. 
SUSAN: Oh, look, Grandfather. I understand the Sensorites. They're timid little people. Because their minds and mine can communicate sometimes, they trust me. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I assure you we shall make good use of that fact, but not without discussions. You will not make decisions on your own accord. Now, do you understand? Is that quite clear? Well, is it? 
SUSAN: Look, I'm not saying I'm as clever as you, of course I'm not. But I won't be pushed aside. I'm not a child anymore, Grandfather. I'm not. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Susan, Susan. 
SENSORITE 1: Why do you make her unhappy? 
SENSORITE 2: We can read the misery in her mind. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and it's a good thing you can't read the anger in mine. In all the years my granddaughter and I have been travelling, we have never had an argument. And now you have caused one. 
SUSAN: All right, Grandfather, I'll do as you tell me. 
DOCTOR: Good, good. Now let's work together and see if we can't get the lock of the Tardis back, hmm? 
SENSORITE 1: We have orders from the First Elder. 
IAN: Is he your ruler? 
SENSORITE 2: Yes. 
SENSORITE 1: He says we are to listen to you and to transmit your words to him. 
DOCTOR: Very well, I'd like to talk to him, face to face. I want to arrange the release of this spaceship. Tell him we're not pirates or plunderers. There's only one treasure we desire from him. 
SENSORITE 1: What is that? 
DOCTOR: Freedom.

[John's room]

(Carol is stroking his hair when he suddenly sits up) 
CAROL: Oh, it's all right, John. I'm here. 
JOHN: The voices. I can hear them. 
CAROL: I know. 
JOHN: In here. The voices. Afraid. Begging me. 
CAROL: John. John, do you know who I am? 
JOHN: You're good. The Sensorites, they want me to forget. All the voices begging me and imploring me to forget. 
CAROL: John's just woken up. 
MAITLAND: You look much better, John. Much better. We'll soon have you as good as new. 
JOHN: I don't like the voices. I want to have silence in my head. 
MAITLAND: You're going to be all right, John. Try not to upset yourself. 
JOHN: No. Silence. Silence. 
CAROL: It's no use, is it. He might as well be dead. 
MAITLAND: That's foolish, Carol. 
CAROL: Oh, is it? Look at him. Listen to him. Can you imagine what it's like being in love with someone, to look at them, to see them and know they've been destroyed. 
MAITLAND: You're going down to the Sensphere with John and some of the others. They're going to cure him. 
CAROL: Oh, it's no use. It's too late. 
JOHN: You're good.

[Control room]

BARBARA: And you can do something for John? Really? 
SENSORITE 1: Yes, in time. 
IAN: And that's the whole point, isn't it. How long? You're asking Barbara and Maitland to stay on the spaceship while we go down to the Sensphere. 
SENSORITE 1: We cannot trust you without some safeguard. 
IAN: But you're asking us to trust you. 
SENSORITE 1: We shall prove trust by curing the man called John. 
IAN: Well I don't like this splitting up. 
BARBARA: Well, I don't mind, Ian. 
IAN: Well I do. It always leads to trouble. 
SENSORITE 1: We cannot agree to any other arrangement. 
BARBARA: Then we accept. 
IAN: Oh, very well then. And how do we get down to this Sensphere? There's no air outside the ship. 
SENSORITE 1: A craft will be made available to you. 
DOCTOR: Before we make this journey, one or two questions. 
SENSORITE 1: There's time. The craft has not arrived yet. 
DOCTOR: These discs you wear round your neck. You press them to your forehead and you speak or hear through your mind, hmm? 
SENSORITE 1: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Otherwise, you communicate as we do. 
SENSORITE 1: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. Quite remarkable. Then you use telepathy to blanket out the minds of the spaceship's crew, hmm? 
SUSAN: Gently, Grandfather. Don't antagonise them. 
DOCTOR: I merely want to know why you attacked Maitland and the others. 
SENSORITE 1: Ten years ago, five human beings landed on the Sensphere. Our planet welcomed them. Their minds were closed against us, although we sensed they thought our planet was a rich one. 
DOCTOR: Yes, rich in minerals, yes, quite. Go on. 
SENSORITE 1: Then the five men quarrelled. Two of the humans took off in a ship. It exploded a mile in the atmosphere. 
BARBARA: What happened to the other three men? 
SENSORITE 1: We imagine they hid themselves aboard, then fought the other two for control. Anyway, all were killed. 
IAN: Yes, but that still doesn't explain why you attacked Maitland and the others. 
SENSORITE 1: Ever since that day of the explosion in the sky, our people have been dying in greater numbers every year. 
DOCTOR: Yes, some kind of disease I imagine, Chesterton. 
IAN: Maybe. 
BARBARA: Could be as simple as scarlet fever. 
SUSAN: And yet you're allowing us to visit your planet? 
SENSORITE 1: Our people are dying, and the First Elder says he senses great knowledge in you. 
DOCTOR: Ah ha! I thought so. Yes, yes, yes, some kind of bargaining ahead of us. 
SENSORITE 2: The craft is approaching. 
IAN: Well I suppose it's worth it, Doctor, if we get the lock of the Tardis back. 
DOCTOR: Yes, provided we can produce our side of the bargain. That's the whole point of the issue. Well, my dear. Reluctant as I am to leave you, I'm afraid we have no alternative. 
BARBARA: Oh, I shall be all right. I'm more worried about you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I shall manage. Come along my boy. Susan. 
IAN: Sorry about this, Barbara. 
BARBARA: I keep telling you I shall be all right. 
IAN: All right. 
BARBARA: Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes? 
BARBARA: Look, I know how you feel, but your grandfather loves you. 
SUSAN: Yes, I know. 
BARBARA: Be patient. We're all on your side really, you know. 
DOCTOR: Susan. We can't do without you. Can we? 
IAN: Well, we're all ready now. 
SENSORITE 1: I will stay on this ship. You must proceed to the Sensphere. The First Elder awaits you.

[Palace of the Elders - Reception room]

(Three Sensorites are present. The First Elder has crossed sashes, the Second Elder a single sash, and the City Administrator a dark collar) 
1ST ELDER: But I have already made my decision. 
2ND ELDER: The deaths of our people will increase. 
1ST ELDER: You cannot prove that. 
2ND ELDER: The deaths began at the time of the last visit of human beings. Why should we welcomed to our planet the same creatures who have been the means of our destruction. 
1ST ELDER: I am the ruler of this planet, am I not? 
2ND ELDER: Of course. 
1ST ELDER: Then what is the point of a ruler if he's not allowed to rule? I have decided to invite these humans because I hope to use them to end the deaths of our own people. 
2ND ELDER: But how? 
1ST ELDER: I will explain. Sometimes one must use fire to make fire. 
2ND ELDER: The First Elder makes a wise decision. In one degree I confess I am anxious. These creatures, these Earth people, are loud and ugly things. Why could we not have met them in the desert or in the mountains? 
1ST ELDER: It is a failure of all beings that they judge through their own eyes. To them, we may appear to be ugly. What we must create between us is trust. That is why I have invited them to my palace. 
2ND ELDER: But are we sure these Earth creatures are beings as you say? There are animals in the deserts and mountains, but we do not invite them in to our palaces. Perhaps these Earth creatures are animals too? 
1ST ELDER: Do not underestimate them. Do we possess a spaceship that can cross the barriers of the universe? And this small mechanism, which my men brought to me, looks like an ordinary lock but in point of fact is an electronic miracle which reveals a mind of science far beyond ours. And this new arrival known as the Doctor. His mind was quick to realise our weakness in the dark and use it against us, but, I would remind you, not unfairly. Merely to protect the girl called Susan. Well, and what does our city administrator say? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Sir, you were elected to lead our people because of your great brain. I would not dare to question your actions. 
1ST ELDER: No opinion can be worse sometimes than a very dogmatic one. 
(The First Elder leaves) 
2ND ELDER: You need not fear me. You may speak your mind. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I am cautious. You are his second opinion, yet he makes his decisions without you. 
2ND ELDER: He makes a wise decision. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Based entirely upon trust. Do you trust these Earth creatures? No more do I. 
2ND ELDER: The decision of the First Elder cannot be set aside. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I would not suggest such a thing. His mind is pure. We are realists. That is why I have beamed the disintegrator to this room. 
2ND ELDER: Without permission? You are presumptuous. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I am the city's administrator. It is my duty to protect the one who rules. Can you say that these Earth creatures will not use force? I am only guarding the First Elder. One suspicious act and the disintegrator will destroy them. 
2ND ELDER: Very well. But you will do nothing further until I have considered the matter. 
(leaves) 
ADMINISTRATOR: I shall not wait. We will not be safe until these Earth creatures are dead.

[Courtyard]

(Strolling through the city, past a fountain) 
DOCTOR: I'm glad to have left those silent people. 
SENSORITE 2: Earth people are not popular. 
IAN: Because your people have been dying? 
SENSORITE 2: Yes. 
DOCTOR: It must be explained to them. The disease, if that's what it is, isn't anybody's fault. Besides, there's cures and preventives. 
SENSORITE 2: You mentioned explaining to the people. You must not speak to them. You are forbidden to talk to the lower caste. SUSAN: Lower caste? Do you have such distinctions? 
SENSORITE 2: Yes. How else can we tell what each man is best fitted to do? The Elders think and rule, the Warriors fight, the Sensorites work and play. 
DOCTOR: You make it sound so very simple. 
SENSORITE 2: And all are happy. 
IAN: But some are happier than others, eh? 
SENSORITE 2: I do not understand. There is no disgrace in being in any of the castes. It is simply what one is best fitted for. 
JOHN: They're near us now. 
CAROL: It's all right, John. I'm here. 
JOHN: The evil minds. 
SUSAN: He knows something. 
CAROL: Oh, it's just a jumble of words. 
SUSAN: No, Carol, no. Remember, his mind is open. He can tell the difference between good and evil people. He's trying to tell us something. 
CAROL: Come on. Come on. Come on.

[Disintegrator control]

ADMINISTRATOR: Is everything prepared? 
ENGINEER: I must test the impulse circuits. Ready to receive power. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Here is the firing key. Beam the disintegrator to the reception room at the Palace of the Elders. 
ENGINEER: Ready. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Three places have been assigned to the Earth creatures. Horizontal lines four 
ENGINEER: Four. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Seven and nine. 
ENGINEER: Nine. The vertical positions? 
ADMINISTRATOR: X A two. 
ENGINEER: X A two. 
ADMINISTRATOR: X B three. 
ENGINEER: X B three. And the last? 
ADMINISTRATOR: X C four. 
ENGINEER: X C four. What part of the body do you want the beam to strike? 
ADMINISTRATOR: In each case, to the heart. 
ENGINEER: Are the hearts of the human creatures on the right or left side of their bodies, or in the centre as in ours? 
ADMINISTRATOR: I do not know. 
ENGINEER: Then I will aim the beam at the centre of the chest in each case. 
ADMINISTRATOR: And that will prove fatal? 
ENGINEER: Yes. Two, eight, seven. The disintegrator is beamed and ready. They are just entering the corridor to the reception room now. Impulses working correctly. They are just entering the reception room. This switch here turns on the beam. 
ADMINISTRATOR: How can you judge their movements so correctly, Engineer? 
ENGINEER: The palace is defended with electrothermal couples. We trace their movements by the heat of their bodies. 
ADMINISTRATOR: And you can tell exactly when they move into their places in the reception room? 
ENGINEER: With absolute accuracy. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Then when they are seated, kill them.

[Reception room]

1ST ELDER: Very well, I agree. 
SUSAN: You can do it? 
1ST ELDER: Yes. The man John can be exactly as he used to be, but it will take time. Conduct him to one of the rest rooms. Say that my orders are that he must be treated. 
CAROL: I must go with him, because he needs me. 
1ST ELDER: Very well. You will be given a room near him. 
CAROL: Thank you. Come on, John. 
JOHN: Good. He is a good man. Not like. 
DOCTOR: Not like who, John? 
JOHN: He is good. 
(Carol and John leave) 
IAN: Thank you for being so understanding. 
DOCTOR: It doesn't alter the fact that you're responsible for his condition. I think it's utterly disgraceful. 
1ST ELDER: Please, do not condemn before you know the facts. 
DOCTOR: Facts? What facts, sir? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, please don't. 
DOCTOR: Very well. 
1ST ELDER: Please sit at the places set for you.

[Disintegrator control]

ENGINEER: They are just taking their positions. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Get ready to fire. 
2ND ELDER: Stop! Disconnect the disintegrator. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Why? 
2ND ELDER: Because they are reasonable, they are civilised. 
ADMINISTRATOR: They are Earth creatures, and dangerous to us. 
2ND ELDER: I tell you, they're talking with the First Elder, and in a most friendly fashion. We need not fear them. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Not whilst we have the disintegrator. It is beamed to their positions. They can be destroyed in a second. 
2ND ELDER: But they will not be. Dismantle the machine. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I say that the trust that we give to each other, we cannot show to these Earth creatures. 
2ND ELDER: And I order that the machine be dismantled. Give me the firing key. 
(The Engineer hands it over) 
2ND ELDER: I am doubtful about you. You question orders, you question authority. Take care lest my doubts are become realities.

[Reception room]

(The Doctor, Ian and Susan are being served refreshments) 
1ST ELDER: If foreigners visited your planet with intention to steal, what would you do? Would you imprison them? Would you kill them? The man John was like the other humans who came here. He became so excited when he found that our planet contained a valuable ore that his mind just opened up and shouted out the secret to us. 
DOCTOR: Molybdenum. 
1ST ELDER: That is correct. He thought of a fleet of spaceships to come here and mine the metal and transport it back to his own planet. We saw the pictures he formed in his mind, and we saw that it was the end of our way of life. We had no alternative but to imprison him and his friends in orbit round the Sensphere. 
IAN: Yes, but that's no reason for driving him out of his mind. 
1ST ELDER: Happened only, I assure you, because of his excitement. His mind had no reserve, no defence. We caused the others to sleep, but he heard the full power of our voices in his brain. Stop. Do not drink. Why do you offer insult to our guests? Why do you not give them the same food and drink that I am given? Who ordered this? The city Administrator? 
(The serving Sensorite nods) 
1ST ELDER: You will bring them the crystal water and take the other away. 
IAN: Tell me, what exactly is the difference? 
1ST ELDER: In the yellow mountains that surround this city, I discovered a pure spring. Very unusual in this planet. I believe the water holds special qualities, so I have flagons of it stored for the use of the Elders. 
IAN: And this one? 
1ST ELDER: Is very well refined. We are very proud of our aqueduct. It lies beneath the city. 
IAN: I hope you won't be offended if I drink some. I'm very thirsty. (drinks) 
1ST ELDER: As long as you taste of the crystal water. It is very fine. None of the Elders drink anything else. 
DOCTOR: Vintage water. 
SUSAN: This fruit is delicious. It tastes like peaches. 
(The water is exchanged) 
DOCTOR: Now, sir, let us talk of the future. Our future.

[Disintegrator control]

ADMINISTRATOR: We are being bound hand and foot and given to these people from Earth. Our leaders are grown weak. 
ENGINEER: I will follow you, the city Administrator. Command me. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I thank you for your loyalty. You shall have my confidence. 
ENGINEER: I gladly accept. I do not trust these Earth creatures. 
ADMINISTRATOR: The First and Second Elders are deceived. I question their leadership. If they do not change their attitude, they may have to give way to one of stronger thought and action. 
ENGINEER: Command me. 
ADMINISTRATOR: For the moment, I am glad of your loyalty. The time for action will not be far away.

[Reception room]

SUSAN: So you are the senior Elder? 
1ST ELDER: Signified by the twin sash I wear. The Second Elder, my advisor, wears one sash. Other important professions wear distinctive markings. 
DOCTOR: And the ordinary people? 
1ST ELDER: Are contented with their similarity. 
IAN: Would you mind telling us something about the (sudden coughing fit) I beg your pardon. The disease. 
SUSAN: Yes, would you tell us about it. We might be able to help you. 
1ST ELDER: I intended to. We need help with this calamity. The disease is invisible, and resists all our attempts to stamp it out. It hits all manner of people, irrespective of their tasks. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Does it affect the Elders? 
1ST ELDER: No. 
DOCTOR: I wonder why not? 
1ST ELDER: I cannot imagine. We have been fortunate? 
(Ian coughs again) 
DOCTOR: Yes, it, er, might be a clue. But what I hope, sir, was this er, that if my friends and I succeed where your scientists failed, will you return the lock of my ship? 
SUSAN: It would be a just return. 
1ST ELDER: Your granddaughter speaks well. 
DOCTOR: Yes, she's a fine young woman. My dear Chesterton, are you all right? 
IAN: My throat, burning. I wonder if you could give me a glass of water, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Is this a symptom of your disease? 
(Ian collapses) 
SUSAN: Ian! Grandfather, he's unconscious. 
1ST ELDER: There is no hope. Your friend is dying.

Episode Four - A Race Against Death

[Reception room]

(Ian is lying face down on the floor) 
DOCTOR: Why has it happened to him and not to us? 
SUSAN: Can you do anything for him? 
1ST ELDER: The disease hits all manner of people. Suddenly, without warning. 
DOCTOR: Never the Elders? 
1ST ELDER: No. 
DOCTOR: It's incredible. The build-up in body temperature. This disease, as you call it, is it contagious? 
1ST ELDER: No. 
DOCTOR: I wonder. Is it a germ in the air? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, it doesn't seem like a disease at all. 
DOCTOR: I agree with you. 
SUSAN: We've done everything together. We've come from the spaceship together, we've come through the city together. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. 
SUSAN: This room. The fruit. 
DOCTOR: No. No, no, no, no, no. You had some of it. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. 
DOCTOR: I know. He drank a different kind of water. It's the water! 
1ST ELDER: Then why do not all who drink the aqueduct water die? 
DOCTOR: Well, it depends on their resistance. In time, of course, all will succumb. 
1ST ELDER: You cannot be sure of this. 
DOCTOR: No, I can't. This is all we have to go on. Send for your servant, please. 
SUSAN: His eyes are opening, Grandfather. 
IAN: (very hoarse) Susan. 
DOCTOR: It's all right, Chesterton. Rest quietly. This isn't a disease, it's more like poison. 
(The servant arrives and bows) 
DOCTOR: Oh, go to your scientists now. I want some sodium chloride and I want it quickly. 
IAN: What happened to me? 
SUSAN: Hush, Ian. Just rest. 
1ST ELDER: Do you wish your companion to stay here? 
DOCTOR: Please, please. 
1ST ELDER: Bring some covers. 
DOCTOR: Now, sir, your indulgence. 
1ST ELDER: I am distressed by this tragedy. What can I do to be of assistance? 
DOCTOR: Well, we must make sure no one drinks anything but the crystal water. 
1ST ELDER: Agreed. 
DOCTOR: Fine. And can I work with your scientists? 
1ST ELDER: They will be honoured. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. 
SUSAN: How long has he got? 
1ST ELDER: I hear the distress in your mind. I respond to it. I wish I could be more reassuring. 
SUSAN: How long? 
1ST ELDER: From the first symptoms, no one has lived longer than the third day. 
DOCTOR: As long as that? Then we have time. I have chemicals and equipment on my ship. Return the lock and I promise you, sir, I will not only cure my young friend but all your people. 
(The servant returns) 
DOCTOR: Ah, good. 
1ST ELDER: I must discuss this matter with the Second Elder. 
DOCTOR: Well do not delay any longer than is necessary, please. Thank you. Now, salt and water, Susan. An old-fashioned remedy but I'm sure it'll serve. Thank you. Now, my boy. 
SUSAN: Ian. Ian, try and sit up. 
DOCTOR: Come along, old chap. 
IAN: Feeling very weak, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, now I want you to drink all of this. It isn't going to be pleasant, but it's all for your own good. 
IAN: Drink. 
DOCTOR: That's it. 
(Ian drinks, splutters at the saltiness) 
DOCTOR: Will they let me into my ship?

[Courtyard]

2ND ELDER: Now be guided by me in this matter. The one they call the Doctor may not be sincere. 
1ST ELDER: But his friend is dying. 
2ND ELDER: Or pretending to die. Then you let the Doctor into his spaceship. 
1ST ELDER: Would he leave his friends at our mercy? 
2ND ELDER: But who knows what power he has in the ship? Once inside it, we may be at his mercy. 
1ST ELDER: Well, I believe in him. 
2ND ELDER: The Doctor may go away to fetch an army of human beings and a fleet of spaceships. 
1ST ELDER: This is a terrible picture you paint. Do you mistrust them as much as all that? 
2ND ELDER: I do not trust them as much as you, so I advise caution. 
1ST ELDER: I will think of your advice, and weigh up the matter.

[Laboratory]

(John is in a chair, with a metal crown of electrodes on his head) 
SCIENTIST: How may I help the city Administrator? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Why is this creature here? 
SCIENTIST: We are clearing his mind. 
ADMINISTRATOR: On whose orders? 
SCIENTIST: The First Elder. 
ADMINISTRATOR: It would have been better to kill him than cure him, Scientist. 
2ND ELDER: Leave us. 
(The scientist leaves) 
2ND ELDER: Once again you question the voice of authority. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Sir, the Elders rule this planet while I am only responsible for this city, yet I will do everything within my power to protect and defend that city. 
2ND ELDER: Be careful your power is not taken from you. 
ADMINISTRATOR: These intruders threaten us all. This creature is being cured! 
2ND ELDER: Yes, we fulfil a promise. 
ADMINISTRATOR: At any moment you will put them in their ship and let them go! This is madness! 
2ND ELDER: One more insolent word from you and I shall ask that your collar of office be taken from you. This man is to be cured. As for the other one. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Which other one? 
2ND ELDER: The one known as Ian Chesterton. 
ADMINISTRATOR: These are absurd names they all have. None of them wear any signs of authority or badges of position. How are we to distinguish them? What is wrong with the other one? 
2ND ELDER: He has caught the disease. Their commander, the Doctor, believes our water supply is to blame. 
ADMINISTRATOR: What a brilliant scheme. Evil, but undoubtedly brilliant. 
2ND ELDER: Explain. 
ADMINISTRATOR: To attack our confidence in one of the necessities. There is nothing wrong with our water supply. Nothing at all. This is a trick to get us at their mercy.
JOHN: Evil. Evil. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Do you see? Even this half-broken creature here admits the truth. 
2ND ELDER: I must warn the First Elder. 
(Second Elder leaves) 
JOHN: No, no. Evil is here. 
ADMINISTRATOR: He cannot hear you. Your mind is closed by the machine. Your voice is not believed. 
JOHN: You are my enemy. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I am the enemy of all Earth creatures, and any Sensorite who defends them shall be swept away. 
JOHN: I must warn them of your evil. I must. I must! 
(John passes out) 
ADMINISTRATOR: Your brain is too weak to harm me. 
CAROL: How's John? Oh, I am sorry. I thought you were one of the scientists. 
ADMINISTRATOR: You can see my collar of office. I am the city Administrator. 
CAROL: Yes, I'm sorry, but when your backs are turned, it's very difficult to see. I don't know what we'd all do if you changed your badges and sashes. We wouldn't be able to tell you apart. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I have never thought of that. 
CAROL: John?

[Reception room]

(The Doctor's anger is making the First Elder cringe. Ian is on a sheepskin covered couch nearby) 
DOCTOR: But he'll die! 
1ST ELDER: No noise! I beg of you. 
SUSAN: Why can't you make up your mind? 
DOCTOR: Just look at that young man. I've done all I can for him at the moment. Given him salt and water. He's been coughing his heart out. I must have chemicals and equipment. His death will be your fault, and yours alone. 
1ST ELDER: Very well, I 
2ND ELDER: Sir. 
(They commune telepathically) 
DOCTOR: What is it now? 
SUSAN: I can't hear very clearly. Their minds aren't open to me. 
DOCTOR: Do you really mean you can hear their minds talking, Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes, but it's not very distinct. 
1ST ELDER: Doctor, I cannot allow you to go to your ship. 
DOCTOR: Don't set yourself against me. 
1ST ELDER: There is a laboratory here. You may prove your poisoned water theory there, or not at all. 
DOCTOR: You fool! 
(The Sensorites cringe) 
SUSAN: Grandfather, please! They think you're attacking them. We're sorry. There's so much about your planet we don't understand. 
DOCTOR: It's inhuman. 
SUSAN: Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Just monstrous. 
SUSAN: We didn't mean to use sound as a weapon. We didn't even know sound hurt you. 
1ST ELDER> Very well, but please be careful in future. I wish to see regular reports on the progress of this theory. 
(The First Elder leaves, Second Elder stays) 
DOCTOR: Theory? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, please! 
DOCTOR: I know we have no alternative, but such outrageous behaviour! Oh, forget it, child. Now, I want you to stay here and act as nurse. Watch his pulse rate, will you, and let me know immediately 
IAN: Doctor. What's happened to me? 
DOCTOR: How are you feeling? 
IAN: My throat's still sore. 
DOCTOR: Any pains elsewhere? 
IAN: No, but I feel very giddy. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, you just rest there quietly. Yes, we'll let him have all the crystal water he wants, and if his breathing gets febrile, artificial respiration. Now, sir. Your laboratory. And I only hope there's time to save him.

[Courtyard]

ENGINEER: The Second Elder has given the firing pin to the Chief of Warriors. I saw him. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Then the disintegrator is no longer of any use to us. How can we destroy these crea 
(First Elder enters) 
ENGINEER: Shh. 
1ST ELDER: I have placed our laboratory at the disposal of the man called the Doctor. See to it that he is given every cooperation. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Yes, sir. 
(First Elder leaves) 
ADMINISTRATOR: Your witness. These creatures are defeating us with smiles and gentle words. Our leaders listen and agree. Soon we shall all be slaves. 
ENGINEER: What can we do? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Bring the Second Elder to me. Alone. The girl Carol gave me an idea. How would you recognise the Second Elder at a distance? 
ENGINEER: By the sash he wears. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Bring the Second Elder to me at the disintegrator room. 
ENGINEER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: We must match cunning with cunning.

[Laboratory]

(Lots of twirly glass and rubber hoses on a table, and John safely out of sight over on the right of our screen) 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I have to say, very comprehensive. Now, gentlemen, time is not on our side. I believe your people have been dying because there is atropine poison in the aqueduct water. Now, allow me. I've made a few notes here which might interest you. Now these are the symptoms. Atropine causes dilation of the blood vessels. Temperature rises and pulse rate becomes very rapid. A rash may appear. The mouth and throat both become extremely dry. Now what we have to do is this, gentlemen. Isolate the poison and then prescribe the remedy. 
SCIENTIST 2: We give you our assistance. 
DOCTOR: Good. 
SCIENTIST: Although we have tested the water already. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well then we must try again. 
SCIENTIST: Over here is a sample of the aqueduct water. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes. You know, a strange thing here is, not all your people died. 
SCIENTIST 2: Three in every ten. Last year it was two in every ten. 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course some may be able to resist it or perhaps some of the water is good. 
SCIENTIST: But all the water is the same. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but surely from different outlets? 
SCIENTIST 2: There are ten districts in the city, but only one source. 
DOCTOR: Well, gentlemen, there's a poison at work here. I know the signs. Now what you must do is to test samples from each and every district. Where did that come from? 
SCIENTIST 2: This palace. It is district ten. 
DOCTOR: I see. Well now, I suggest that you sample that bottle, and mark it and then start keeping records. And there's not a moment to lose. And remember, I want samples from all the outlying districts. It's imperative. 
(And so the testing starts, as Ian becomes delirious. District after district comes back negative for contaminants, until - ) 
DOCTOR: This one! I've found it. And just as I suspected, atropine poison. That's why your people have been dying off. 
SCIENTIST: But why were some of the districts negative? 
DOCTOR: Because it varies from place to place, and when you made your tests, you didn't discover it.

[Reception room]

1ST ELDER: And can the Doctor discover a cure? 
2ND ELDER: He says so. Caffeine citrate is the antidote. 
1ST ELDER: Remarkable man. Remarkable. 
2ND ELDER: I have an appointment, then I shall return to the laboratory. 
1ST ELDER: Give my Doctor the congratulations on the progress. 
(Second Elder leaves, and First Elder goes over to Ian's sickbed or couch) 
SUSAN: He's much easier now. 
1ST ELDER: The Doctor has had some success. A remedy will be available soon. 
SUSAN: Thank goodness. Ian. Ian, you're going to be all right.

[Disintegrator room]

ADMINISTRATOR: They are coming now. 
(Second Elder enters) 
2ND ELDER: Why are we meeting here? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Hold him! 
(Two Sensorites grab the Second Elder) 
2ND ELDER: You will be punished for this offence. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I advise you to answer my questions. Your family group is also in my power. 
2ND ELDER: What have you done with them? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Nothing so far. Has the Doctor completed his experiments? 
2ND ELDER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: And the antidote is to be given to the young man Ian? 
2ND ELDER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: And then to our people who are also ill? 
2ND ELDER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I do not believe there is an antidote. The young man pretends to be ill. The Doctor pretends to cure him, and then he will kill us all with the poison he has made. 
2ND ELDER: That's not true! Our scientists have worked with him. They say 
ADMINISTRATOR: Silence! You are a traitor to our people. You are not worthy to wear this. 
(He pulls off the Elder's sash, and his own collar, then puts the sash on himself) 
2ND ELDER: What are you going to do? 
ADMINISTRATOR: This so-called antidote must be stopped. The people will obey their Elders. 
2ND ELDER: The First Elder has approved the antidote. 
ADMINISTRATOR: And yet it will be stopped. The Second Elder will suppress it. 
2ND ELDER: I will not! 
ADMINISTRATOR: I wear your sash of office. Who is to know that I am not the Second Elder now? Bind him. Keep him here.

[Laboratory]

CAROL: You're tired out, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but a happy tiredness, my dear. How's our friend? 
CAROL: Oh, he's improving, but he still seems to go back sometimes to that old state of confusion. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you must expect that. Ah, my friend. You've prepared the antidote? 
SCIENTIST: Yes, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Splendid. Now I think we ought to start making this in large quantities. Will you please see that that goes to the First Elder's room? Give it to my granddaughter, Susan. 
SCIENTIST: I'll send a messenger immediately. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well now we shall soon be off this planet. 
CAROL: When John's cured. There's no quick antidote for him. 
DOCTOR: Oh, courage, my dear. Courage. Of course, I'm rather baffled with this atropine poison, because it only seems to appear in one part of the city or rather one reservoir at a time. It's curious. 
CAROL: Yes, but you've discovered an antidote now. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, that's a cure all right, but then why cure something when we can stamp it out, hmm? 
JOHN: Enemies. 
DOCTOR: What's that, my friend? 
JOHN: Plotting. 
CAROL: He's more coherent now, but it's as if he was living in a dream world where he's surrounded by enemies. 
JOHN: Enemies. Yes. Making plots. 
DOCTOR: I don't know. He might be more lucid, you know, than one should imagine. Now I'm going off on an expedition, and I want you to take note of what he says. 
JOHN: Listen to John. 
DOCTOR: You see, he knows his name. Now you stay with him. I think he's getting better, and I'm sure you're going to have a great future between you, later on. Now, after my little exploration  
CAROL: Where are you going, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I'm going to find the First Elder, Scientist, rather, and we're going off on an exploration. It isn't dangerous, of course. But when I have solved my problem I'm sure we shall all be out of trouble.

[Courtyard]

ENGINEER: Supposing your disguise is seen through? 
ADMINISTRATOR: You must remember that the First and Second Elders are well known only to those in powerful positions. The people see them rarely, and mostly at a distance. 
SCIENTIST: I greet the Second Elder. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I return your greeting, Scientist. 
(The Scientist starts to leave) 
ENGINEER: Success! 
ADMINISTRATOR: Yes. Scientist, come here. Where are you going? 
SCIENTIST: The man from the spaceship, the Doctor, has found a cure. Poison was in our water supply. Here is the antidote. 
ADMINISTRATOR: You take it to the young Earth creature who is ill? 
SCIENTIST: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Give it to me. I will deliver it. Return to your laboratory. 
(The Scientist leaves) 
ENGINEER: If this Doctor has found a cure 
ADMINISTRATOR: It's a trick. They are trying to poison us all. I will prove it to you. They say without the antidote the young man will die. I say he will live because he is pretending. 
(And he throws the vial to the floor, where it smashes) 
ADMINISTRATOR: This will prove it one way or the other.

[Reception room]

SUSAN: Why hasn't the antidote arrived yet? 
1ST ELDER: I do not know. 
IAN: Doctor must have run into a snag, Susan. It's not always possible to do these things at the snap of a finger. 
SUSAN: I'm going to find out why. May I do that? 
1ST ELDER: Yes. I will have you conducted to the laboratory. Go with this servant, and give my respects to the senior scientist.

[Aqueduct]

SCIENTIST: Here is the entrance to the aqueduct. 
DOCTOR: It's very gloomy. 
SCIENTIST: All our attempts to light it end in failure for one reason or another. 
DOCTOR: But that must make it rather difficult for you. The Sensorites dislike darkness, don't they? 
SCIENTIST: We avoid this place. We have no reason to go down to the aqueduct anyway. 
DOCTOR: Well, it may be because you've neglected it that the water's become poisoned. 
SCIENTIST: Shall we return now? 
DOCTOR: Return? I don't want to return. I haven't just come here for a look. I'm going in there. 
SCIENTIST: No! You must not. 
DOCTOR: And why? 
SCIENTIST: You will not be able to see. 
DOCTOR: Oh, but I have a torch. 
SCIENTIST: There are monsters in there. 
DOCTOR: Indeed? Are there? 
SCIENTIST: Yes, we've heard them. 
DOCTOR: And not seen them? 
SCIENTIST: No, but they are there. The noise is terrifying. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you should return to the laboratory. I shall be all right. Leave it to me, will you? I assure you. 
(The Scientist leaves) 
DOCTOR: How very convenient. Yes. Noise and darkness. The two things the Sensorites dislike. There's more in this than meets the eye.

[Reception room]

(Susan has given Ian an injection) 
1ST ELDER: I cannot understand why the Second Elder did not bring the antidote here. 
SUSAN: Well I managed to get some more. That's all that really matters. Thank you. Now, no running around for a bit, Ian. 
IAN: Yes, Matron. Actually, I'm quite happy to stay here. I feel as though someone has given me a good going over with a hammer. 
(The Scientist enters) 
SCIENTIST: I attend you, sire. 
1ST ELDER: My orders have not been complied with. I asked for regular reports. Where have you been? 
SCIENTIST: Forgive me, sir. The Doctor asked me to take him to the aqueduct. 
1ST ELDER: Why? 
SCIENTIST: He said that that was where the root of the trouble lay. I couldn't stop him. He sent me away and said he was going in. 
1ST ELDER: Did you not warn him? 
SCIENTIST: Yes, but he took no notice. 
SUSAN: Warn him of what? 
1ST ELDER: The aqueduct. It's inhabited by monsters. 
IAN: What? Why did you let him go down there? 
SCIENTIST: I couldn't stop him. 
IAN: We must get him out. Haven't you got someone you can send down there to help him? 
1ST ELDER: The caverns are dark. We are helpless. 
SUSAN: Take some light with you then. 
1ST ELDER: Other expeditions have tried and failed. Most of our men do not return, and those that do speak of terrible things. 
IAN: Well, I'll have to go myself and 
SUSAN: No you won't. 
IAN: We can't stay here, Susan. 
SUSAN: You're too ill, Ian. 
IAN: I'm not that ill. 
SUSAN: All right. We'll need someone to show us the way. 
1ST ELDER: I beg you to change your minds. You cannot save your friend. 
IAN: We'll never know till we try, will we? 
(The Scientist leads them out, Ian leaning on Susan) 
1ST ELDER: These people have fine qualities. The Second Elder and I have misjudged them, and I will tell him so. 
(He uses his telepathy device)

[Disintegrator room]

2ND ELDER: I hear you, sir. I hear you. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Someone's mind is in communication with yours? Whose is it? The First Elder? 
2ND ELDER: Give me the mind transmitter. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Do you think I'm a fool? You can hear, but you cannot speak your mind without this. What is he saying to you? 
2ND ELDER: I refuse to tell you. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Think of your family group. Its safety depends upon you. 
2ND ELDER: It is the First Elder. He says we have misjudged the human beings from Earth. He's saying the one called the Doctor has gone down into the viaduct, that the young man and the girl called Susan have gone to rescue him. He is asking why I don't reply. 
ADMINISTRATOR: No one, no one can come out of the aqueduct alive. The one known as the Doctor is near death. The other two approach death. I see victory for all my plans!

[Aqueduct]

IAN: Is this it? 
SCIENTIST: Yes. Take this. It's a radio-electric light. 
SUSAN: Thank you. Ian, how do you feel? If you don't want to go any further, just say. 
IAN: No, I'm fine. Come on.

[Cavern]

(The Doctor has found something) 
DOCTOR: Is it? Yes. I thought so. Atropa Belladonna. Deadly Nightshade. 
(Over in the darkness, something roars)

Episode Five - Kidnap

[Cavern]

SUSAN: What is it, Ian? 
IAN: We must find him. 
SUSAN: Are you all right? 
IAN: Yes. 
SUSAN: Lean on me. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Keep away! 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
IAN: He's unconscious. Here, help me to get him out of here. 
SUSAN: Look at the state he's in. 
(The back of the Doctor's jacket is in shreds) 
IAN: Don't worry about that. Collect up his things. We don't want to hang around here. It's going away. 
SUSAN: Ian, what do you think this is? 
IAN: I don't know. Part of an old lighting system I suppose. Don't worry about that now. Let's get him out of here before that thing comes back.

[Laboratory]

CAROL: Can't just give up. You know the aqueduct. Surely you can help them in some way? 
SCIENTIST: I regret it is impossible. 
1ST ELDER: You have no conception of what extreme sound does to us. It stuns the brain and paralyses the nerves. 
SCIENTIST: And in the darkness we're helpless anyway. Our warriors will be more of a hindrance than a help. 
CAROL: Is there no hope for them, then? 
1ST ELDER: Let us speak of your companion, the man John. The senior scientist told me that he's making excellent progress. The final treatment will be given today. 
CAROL: Thank you. 
1ST ELDER: You are sad for the friends you have lost. Rejoice for the friend who is being returned to you. Scientist, you will report to me on your progress. 
SCIENTIST: I will, sir. 
CAROL: Those poor people.

[Aqueduct]

SUSAN: Just look at this coat. It's ruined. 
IAN: Those look like claw marks. Strange they didn't reach your skin. 
DOCTOR: Yes, strange indeed when you realise that I was at the mercy of that creature. It was so dark in there it was invisible and it knocked me to the ground. 
IAN: Are you sure you didn't see it? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. Something hit me under the heart and it was most unpleasant. It was a good thing I sent you that antidote. Otherwise I might have been in a much worse state than I was. SUSAN: We didn't get the antidote. I had to go all the way back to the laboratory and get some more. 
DOCTOR: What? 
IAN: Yes. Surrounded by enemies. 
DOCTOR: Then it's true. True. The water, and those monsters in there, and now it appears that there's someone among the Sensorites that bear us ill-will. That's two separate enemies. 
IAN: Don't you mean three? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no. No, don't mistake me. The water and those monsters are distinctly connected. I've more or less solved that problem. But this Sensorite who's against us is a much greater danger. Now I suggest we go back and try and find out which one it is. 
IAN: Yes. 
(A Sensorite watches them leave)

[Laboratory]

JOHN: Treachery. 
CAROL: He keeps on saying the same things. 
JOHN: A plot. I must warn you. 
CAROL: I'm sure he's discovered something or he's overheard someone and he's trying to tell us. 
JOHN: Yes. Tell you. Warn you. 
CAROL: You see? 
SCIENTIST: It must be illusion. Our society is based upon trust. Treason or secret plotting is impossible. 
CAROL: That's rather a sweeping statement. 
SCIENTIST: But why should a Sensorite make any secret plans against anyone? We have the perfect society. All are contented. 
CAROL: Some people always want more than others. 
SCIENTIST: That is a human value, surely. 
CAROL: Perhaps. Rest quietly now, John. It won't be long. (to Scientist) You were trying to explain something to me earlier. 
SCIENTIST: We discovered long ago that in our brains there were many different compartments or divisions. When fear or alarm is at work, that section becomes open, a veil is lifted. Do you understand? CAROL: Yes. 
SCIENTIST: That is what happened to the man John. But the veil will not lower itself. Thus he is constantly afraid. Even when he's at peace, when he's asleep for example, the body says one thing, the brain the other. That's his condition, utter confusion. 
CAROL: And this treatment you're giving him is in order to close down that veil? 
SCIENTIST: Yes. Not permanently, of course, or he would step into danger without concern. The veil must function normally again. 
CAROL: It's rather like an eyelid, isn't it. These shutters over my eyes. 
SCIENTIST: Yes. To see all the time is not a good thing. Now, we must begin. 
CAROL: Yes. I'll be here all the time, John. 
JOHN: Carol. 
CAROL: Yes, that's right. 
JOHN: I must tell you, but it's so difficult. 
CAROL: Soon you'll be able to tell me all you've found out.

[Disintegrator room]

(The Second Elder is being untied, but the Administrator still wears his sash of office) 
ENGINEER: There is no mistake, City Administrator. I saw the Doctor and the other two leave the aqueduct. I hear them talking. They are suspicious. 
ADMINISTRATOR: The creature John is nearly cured. He too can speak against me. We are nearly surrounded by our enemies. 
2ND ELDER: You will be uncovered as a traitor and a criminal. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Silence. 
ENGINEER: What are we to do? 
ADMINISTRATOR: These Earth creatures are working to destroy the Sensorite nation. Their pleasant smile conceals sharp teeth, their soft words hide deadly threats. 
2ND ELDER: Please, don't listen. 
ADMINISTRATOR: And who opposes them? Weak and timid creatures like this Second Elder here, whose sash I wear. 
2ND ELDER: Thief. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Whimpering betrayer of our people. Coward! I should imprison you in some room wherein no light can shine, and fill that room with noise! 
2ND ELDER: Do it, then. Finish with me. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Not yet. Remember, I hold your family group. First you shall do something for me. Summon the Senior Warrior with your mind transmitter. Tell him to bring the firing key of the disintegrator and meet you in the forecourt of the palace. 
2ND ELDER: No. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Remember your family group. 
2ND ELDER: Very well. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I shall be listening. Stand over him. Stab him if he sends his mind to anyone other than the Senior Warrior. Now send this thought. Senior Warrior, this is the Second Elder. Go on! Send it! Good. He's answering. Tell him to bring the firing key and meet you in the courtyard of the Palace of the Elders. That is enough. I shall keep the appointment you have made. The Senior Warrior shall know me by the sash I wear. Your sash. Guard him well. 
(The Administrator leaves) 
2ND ELDER: Why do you listen to him? Why do you follow him? 
ENGINEER: He will not betray our people, nor surrender our planet. 
2ND ELDER: He will bring us all down. All of us. 
ENGINEER: Be silent! 
2ND ELDER: All of us.

[Courtyard]

DOCTOR: You've been exerting yourself, boy, and naturally you're weak. 
SUSAN: He can rest now though, can't he, Grandfather. We'll force him to. 
IAN: I wish you two'd stop fussing over me. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, you must do as you're told, and that is that. Isn't that one of the Elders? 
SUSAN: It's the Second Elder. He's only got one sash. 
(They see the Warrior hand the key over to the 'Elder') 
DOCTOR: Take it easy. I want a word with him. I say, you, sir. Sir, I'd like a word with you. 
(The Doctor follows him off, and the Warrior leaves in the opposite direction) 
SUSAN: It's a funny place down here, isn't it? 
IAN: What about up there? I wonder how Barbara's getting on? 
SUSAN: I wish she were down here with us. 
IAN: I wish we were up there in the Tardis and away from here. Still, I know what you mean. Hey, why don't we ask the First Elder if Barbara can come down and join us. 
(The Doctor returns) 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Most extraordinary. He ran away from me! 
SUSAN: (laughs) That must have looked funny. Flip, flap, flip, flap. 
DOCTOR: I can assure you he was very mobile, my child. Come along, let's get into the First Elder's room. Come along.

[Disintegrator room]

ADMINISTRATOR: Why have you not retied his hands? (the Engineer obeys) Now, now I have the power. 
(The Second Elder shrugs off the Engineer and takes the key from the Administrator. He then bends it against the edge of the console) 
ADMINISTRATOR: Stop him, you fool! 
(There's a brief struggle, and the Engineer knocks out the Second Elder) 
ADMINISTRATOR: He has broken it! 
ENGINEER: The Second Elder is dead! 
ADMINISTRATOR: The only other firing key is in the possession of the First Elder! 
ENGINEER: Then we shall have to give up. We must leave the city, hide in the mountains. 
ADMINISTRATOR: No, no. Don't be foolish. The death of the Second Elder can help us, not condemn us. We must act quickly. You know the man called the Doctor? 
ENGINEER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: You can describe him? 
ENGINEER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Good. Then I will outline my plan to you.

[Reception room]

1ST ELDER: Yes, I have asked questions. The first supply of the antidote you sent, Doctor, was intercepted by my Second Elder, my advisor. He has since disappeared. 
SUSAN: We saw him in the courtyard. 
1ST ELDER: His behaviour is a mystery. 
DOCTOR: Yes, strange indeed, sir. I tried to talk to him and he ran away. 
IAN: Yes. You still won't accept that he's done something bad. 
1ST ELDER: I cannot. I selected him for office, but it is not pride which makes me defend my choice. I know that Sensorite. I trust him. 
SUSAN: And yet you can't explain his actions. 
1ST ELDER: A mystery does not mean that he is guilty. 
(A Sensorite enters with a cloak) 
1ST ELDER: For the Doctor. 
DOCTOR: My dear sir. That's most civil of you. I ruined my jacket down in the aqueduct, but of course I have others on my ship. Thank you. 
SUSAN: Very smart. 
DOCTOR: Beau Brummell always said I looked better in a cloak. 
(The Administrator enters, wearing his proper collar) 
1ST ELDER: The City Administrator wishes to speak? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Urgently, sir. A story has been put before me that you should hear. 
1ST ELDER: Now? 
ADMINISTRATOR: It concerns the Second Elder and these Earth creatures. 
1ST ELDER: Very well. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Enter. 
(The Warrior and the Engineer enter) 
ADMINISTRATOR: Tell your story. 
ENGINEER: Sir, the Second Elder is dead. He was killed in the courtyard. I saw the man who killed him. 
1ST ELDER: The man? 
ENGINEER: Yes, sir. It was the man called the Doctor. 
SUSAN: That's not true! 
ADMINISTRATOR: The Senior Warrior here has evidence. Speak. 
WARRIOR: I met the Second Elder in the courtyard, as he ordered me to. I gave him the firing key of the disintegrator. Then I saw the Doctor go after the Second Elder. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I did that, but I didn't kill him. 
ENGINEER: I saw you. You wrestled for possession of the firing key. 
ADMINISTRATOR: There is the firing key, bent as though in a struggle. 
ENGINEER: And finally, when the Second Elder resisted, you took an object from inside your coat, and struck him down and killed him. 
1ST ELDER: This is a grave charge. 
IAN: But obviously untrue, sir. 
1ST ELDER: Why? 
IAN: How did you recognise the Doctor? 
ENGINEER: His hair is different. 
IAN: Yes. 
ENGINEER: So are his clothes. 
IAN: Oh, yes, his clothes. You say that you saw him take an object from his pocket. 
ENGINEER: Yes. 
IAN: You could see quite clearly? You're sure it was from his coat pocket? 
ENGINEER: I tell you yes! All the Sensorites know the Doctor by his 
(The Doctor stands, and poses grandly in his cloak) 
IAN: The Doctor's coat is outside the aqueduct. You are lying. 
ENGINEER: Then, then it was a cloak he was wearing! Yes, it was. I'm sure of it now. It was a cloak. 
1ST ELDER: I have just presented the Doctor with that cloak. Your story is a tissue of lies. Remove him. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I shall interview you myself. 
(The Warrior leads the Engineer away) 
ADMINISTRATOR: Sir, you must forgive his wild accusation, but I felt his story should be brought before you. 
1ST ELDER: You acted correctly. What can have possessed my advisor? 
ADMINISTRATOR: The Second Elder, sir, was always opposed to our visitors. Perhaps he stole the firing key in order to attack them with the disintegrator? 
SUSAN: I bet he stole our antidote too. He was our enemy. 
1ST ELDER: A sad matter. But since he has deceived us, my sympathy shall not be wasted. As to his replacement. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I have his sash of office here, so that you may select a new advisor immediately. 
IAN: Perhaps he ought not to look further than this room.
SUSAN: Yes. If he thought he got promotion because of us, he'd be a useful ally. 
DOCTOR: Just what I was thinking. Yes, of course, we have no wish to interfere in your affairs, but the City Administrator appears to have all the qualifications. 
1ST ELDER: Well, what do you say? Can you accept such power, such authority? 
ADMINISTRATOR: My only ambition is to serve the Sensorite nation. 
1ST ELDER: Then accept this sash. I make you my advisor. From now on you will be know as the Second Elder, second only on the Sensphere to me. And once this order is made, only a betrayal of trust can set it aside. 
(The Administrator takes of his neck band, and the First Elder puts the sash on him. But I'll still call him Administrator) 
1ST ELDER: My new advisor and I have much to discuss. You will excuse us? 
DOCTOR: Certainly, sir. My companions and I will pay a visit to the man John, and note his progress. 
SUSAN: Oh, you were going to ask about Barbara. 
IAN: I don't think this is quite the moment. I'll ask later. 
SUSAN: All right. 
IAN: Oh, and congratulations. 
ADMINISTRATOR: When you address one of the Elders, you call him sir.

[Laboratory]

(John no longer wears the contraption on his head) 
SCIENTIST: Now we shall know. 
CAROL: John. John? 
JOHN: Such a headache. 
SCIENTIST: That will go quickly. 
JOHN: It's easing now. Carol. You're crying. 
CAROL: I'm all right, really I am. It's just that I haven't seen you smile for so long. 
JOHN: But we can't have you crying, can we. I'm all right now. I'm all right. That John's gone quite suddenly. Was it awful? 
CAROL: All that matters is how you are now. 
JOHN: What have I been like all this time? 
CAROL: Don't you remember? 
JOHN: Some things, but most of it seems a sort of grey cloud. I just remember that it seems a very long time. 
CAROL: Yes. Oh, John, I can't tell you how I feel. How glad. 
SCIENTIST: It is indeed a time of happiness for both of you. 
CAROL: Oh, this is the scientist who cured you. 
JOHN: Then I have a lot to thank you for. 
(He holds out his hand) 
SCIENTIST: What do you ask for? 
JOHN: We have a custom of shaking hands with someone, in friendship. 
SCIENTIST: Then, I accept. 
(The Doctor, Ian and Susan enter) 
DOCTOR: Well, well. What a happy scene. 
SUSAN: Do you remember us? 
JOHN: I remember you distinctly. 
IAN: Well I'm Ian, and this is the Doctor, Susan's grandfather. 
DOCTOR: I'm glad to see you don't bear a grudge against the Sensorites for the past. 
CAROL: All that matters now is the present. 
DOCTOR: Splendid. Now sir, the antidote. I wonder if 
(They move off out of shot) 
JOHN: I remember another girl. 
SUSAN: Oh, that's Barbara. We both found you. She's up in the spaceship. 
JOHN: Oh I see. 
SUSAN: John, all the time you were ill, you were trying to warn us of something. 
JOHN: There was a Sensorite who was dangerous. I must try and remember what happened. 
(The Administrator sneaks in quietly) 
JOHN: I know there was a plot. Yes, that's it. Someone was plotting against you 
ADMINISTRATOR: And this Sensorite. Can you identify him? 
JOHN: No. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Is he in this room? 
JOHN: No. There was something particularly odd about his clothes, I remember. Exactly what 
ADMINISTRATOR: Yes, it must have been the Sensorite who just died. 
SUSAN: Yes. I suppose it must. 
ADMINISTRATOR: The First Elder wishes to talk to the Doctor. You will inform him. 
SUSAN: All right. 
(The Administrator leaves) 
JOHN: He's not very friendly. 
SUSAN: Well, he's only just become Second Elder. I should think he's trying out his new authority. 
CAROL: I wouldn't like to cross him. 
(Across the lab) 
DOCTOR: And what is this little collection of things here? 
SCIENTIST: Left behind by the humans that were killed in the spaceship explosion. 
DOCTOR: I see. 
IAN: Oh, look at these, Doctor. Family snapshots. Look. 
DOCTOR: Yes, now just a moment. This is rather important. This is a rough plan of the aqueduct. 
SCIENTIST: One of the human beings was very interested in the aqueduct. 
DOCTOR: Is that so? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, the First Elder wants to talk to you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. I have a couple of questions for him. 
SCIENTIST: This is only a sketch. I can let you have a plan in detail if you need. 
DOCTOR: Very valuable, very valuable. 
SCIENTIST: The City Administrator can have no objection. 
SUSAN: The City Administrator! Of course! 
DOCTOR: What about him? What about him? 
SUSAN: John, you know you said that there was something odd about the Sensorite? Was it his collar? 
JOHN: Collar. Yes, that was it. 
SUSAN: You see, the City Administrator. He was our enemy. 
IAN: What, the one who's just been made the Second Elder? 
SUSAN: Yes! When John was ill, he must have given himself away. 
IAN: Yes. He was certainly pretty odd with me. 
DOCTOR: If this is true what you say, Susan, there's trouble ahead for us. That Sensorite has power now. 
IAN: Yes, and the worst of it is, we gave him the power.

[Disintegrator room]

ADMINISTRATOR: You were not to know that the Doctor had changed his coat. I managed your escape from prison and that is all that matters. 
ENGINEER: I am grateful, but what use am I now? 
ADMINISTRATOR: I still have a task for you. You are accomplished in mechanical matters. 
ENGINEER: Yes. What do you want me to do?  
ADMINISTRATOR: (holding weapons) Can you remove the mechanisms but leave them looking perfect from the outside? 
ENGINEER: Yes. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Then see to it.

[Reception room]

IAN: It's no use telling him stories about the Second Elder, Doctor. We've got to give him proof. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I quite agree. And the only way to get that proof is to go back into the aqueduct. What about Susan? 
IAN: Look, why don't you ask the First Elder if we can have Barbara down here again. 
DOCTOR: A good idea. 
1ST ELDER: Gentlemen. Be seated.  
DOCTOR: Yes, thank you. 
IAN: Well, sir, the Doctor and I have discussed this poison business, and we are convinced that your water supply is being deliberately poisoned. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and what we propose to do, sir, is to go down into the aqueduct, find your enemies and stop them. 
1ST ELDER: Very well. But you will take light with you, and such arms as we can provide. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. We're making progress. 
IAN: Barbara. 
DOCTOR: I wonder, sir, could I ask you a small favour? 
1ST ELDER: Ask it. 
DOCTOR: We have a companion, a young lady, on the ship. Is it possible for her to be brought down here in the Sensphere? 
1ST ELDER: It will be arranged. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, sir. Splendid. 
WARRIOR: I have brought the weapons, sir. 
1ST ELDER: Ah. Thank you. Warrior. Instruct them as to their use.

[Courtyard]

ADMINISTRATOR: It's done. I have arranged that the useless weapons shall be delivered to the humans. Hide yourself. 
(Engineer leaves) 
ADMINISTRATOR: What have you there? 
SCIENTIST: It is the plan of the aqueduct, sir. The Doctor asked for it. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Give it to me. I will deliver it. Return to your duties. 
SCIENTIST: Thank you, sir. 
(Scientist leaves) 
ADMINISTRATOR: The plan of the aqueduct. (Engineer reappears) Quickly, change some of the routes on this and see that a messenger delivers it to the Doctor. 
ENGINEER: It shall be done. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Now, not only shall they go down into the aqueduct with useless armaments, but they will be hopelessly lost as well.

[Reception room]

(They are looking at the weapons) 
IAN: Very simple to use, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Careful. 
WARRIOR: The range is considerable. The ray paralyses up to a distance of thirty yards. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, splendid. And remember, dear boy, that I shall be standing nearly next to you. I've never liked weapons at any time. However, they're handy little things. Tell me, how long does this paralysis last? 
WARRIOR: One hour. 
DOCTOR: Fine, fine. These weapons are splendid, sir. And without a doubt they'll help us to make success. 
1ST ELDER: And yet I do not envy you your adventure. I still wish I could dissuade you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and that brings me to another problem. My granddaughter, Susan. She's bound to want to come with us. 
IAN: I don't think she ought to, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No, I quite agree with you, my boy. We must go and not tell her, and save any arguments. I wonder, sir, would you mind keeping a small secret until we're well and truly away? 
1ST ELDER: Very well. 
DOCTOR: Yes, thank you. After all, there's no danger now we have these protectors, and I'm sure we can settle our little business in an hour or two. 
1ST ELDER: Ah, the map of the aqueduct. 
DOCTOR: Oh, excellent, excellent, my dear sir. 
IAN: Well, let's go and make an end of it, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Are you quite sure you're up to it? 
IAN: Quite. 
DOCTOR: Splendid. Lead the way. Sir. 
(Ian and the Doctor leave) 
WARRIOR: They are brave people, sir. 
1ST ELDER: We will not regret having known them. 
WARRIOR: I am glad they were innocent of killing the Second Elder, sir. 
1ST ELDER: Yes, I am still anxious about that. You realise that if they did not kill my advisor, then he must have been killed by a Sensorite. 
WARRIOR: But who would do such a thing? 
1ST ELDER: Who, yes, but also I ask myself, why was it done?

[Laboratory]

(Food is laid out on low tables) 
JOHN: I've never felt so hungry. 
CAROL: Oh, won't it be wonderful when we get back to the Earth, John? How I long for a thick, juicy steak. 
JOHN: Well, you'll just have to make do with a small juicy fruit. 
SUSAN: I wonder where they've gone to? I don't know what they're talking about all this time. 
CAROL: Oh, I expect they're arranging for our return to the spaceship. 
(Ian and the Doctor arrive at the aqueduct and go into the tunnel to the caverns) 
CAROL: I think I'll go over to the Palace of the Elders and try and hurry them up. 
SUSAN: Oh, would you, Carol? Thank you. 
JOHN: Tell them I'm starving. 
CAROL: All right. 
(Carol leaves) 
SUSAN: John, I'm so happy that you're better now. So's Carol. Well, you can see that for yourself. 
JOHN: Hmm. She's had a bad time. You know, I've a feeling that we'll both give up space travelling when we get back to Earth. 
SUSAN: Oh, and get married? 
JOHN: She's all I really care about. Come on, let's eat. I'm tired of waiting.

(over in the Palace of the Elders Courtyard, Carol is grabbed from behind and dragged off.

Episode Six - A Desperate Venture

[Disintegrator room]

(Carol is dragged into the room and thrown to the floor) 
CAROL: Why are you doing this? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Pay attention to me. You write a letter to the man John. 
CAROL: I certainly will not. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Argument is a waste of time. Two of your friends have gone up into the spaceship. They cannot help you. Two of the others have gone down into the aqueduct. 
CAROL: The Doctor and Ian? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Yes. They cannot help you. The other two, the man John and the girl Susan, are waiting innocently in the laboratory for you. Your party is divided. 
CAROL: What do you want me to do? 
ADMINISTRATOR: Write to the man John. Tell him you have gone up into the spaceship. In this way, he will not suspect your disappearance. 
CAROL: You can't force me to do this. 
ADMINISTRATOR: I can see that you stay alive. Your life means nothing to me. Let us strike a bargain. You will write the note, I will see you live. 
CAROL: Very well. 
ENGINEER: Be wary of her. We cannot read her thoughts. She may 
ADMINISTRATOR: Be quiet. Write! You will stay here and guard her. She will guarantee the success of all my plans. 
ENGINEER: And I shall be given high office? 
ADMINISTRATOR: I shall reward those who are faithful to me. 
(The note reads - John. Have gone to the spaceship. Carol.)

[Reception room]

(The note has been delivered) 
SUSAN: She couldn't have gone up to the spaceship. 
JOHN: Either you'd have seen her, or passed her on the way. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
BARBARA: She was obviously forced to write this. Whoever made her do it had no idea that I was being brought down here. 
SUSAN: I bet the City Administrator had something to do with it. 
JOHN: But why kidnap her? 
BARBARA: I should think the why's fairly obvious, wouldn't you? 
JOHN: No, I don't think it is, Barbara. We're on good terms with the First Elder, the Doctor's discovered an antidote for the poison and now he and Ian are tracking down the cause of the trouble. 
BARBARA: Look, I've been away in the ship so maybe I can see things more clearly. And I think we're being used by one of the Sensorites who wants to gain power. 
SUSAN: You mean we're not just being attacked because we're from other planets? 
BARBARA: No. 
1ST ELDER: I greet you. 
BARBARA: Thank you. Your friends expressed so much concern about you, I agreed to have you brought down to the Sensphere. 
BARBARA: I'm afraid we must ask for your help. 
1ST ELDER: If I can. 
BARBARA: The Doctor and Ian are missing. Have you any idea where they are? Well please tell me. 
1ST ELDER: There is a quality in human beings which intrigues me. Your concern for each other. I assure you the two men are safe. 
BARBARA: You know where they are? 
1ST ELDER: Yes, but they asked me not to tell you what their plans were. 
SUSAN: That's Grandfather. 
BARBARA: Look, would you mind reading this letter? 
1ST ELDER: I gave no such order. 
BARBARA: No, we didn't think you did. 
1ST ELDER: Then why does your friend write what is not true? 
JOHN: Because someone made her write it. 
1ST ELDER: She could not travel without my ordering it. Where did you receive this? 
SUSAN: It was given to us in the courtyard, where the arches are. 
JOHN: She is being held prisoner. 
1ST ELDER: Not by any Sensorite. 
JOHN: Of course she is! 
BARBARA: Quietly, John. 
SUSAN: Look, whatever she wrote this with wasn't dry. I put my thumb on it and smudged it. 
1ST ELDER: And this is her writing? 
ALL: Yes. 
JOHN: And that smudge means that it was written just before we got it. 
1ST ELDER: Are you implying that your friend Carol is being held prisoner in this palace? I assure you she is not. 
BARBARA: Well, are there any other buildings in the vicinity? 
1ST ELDER: None, except the disintegrator room. 
BARBARA: Where's that? 
1ST ELDER: Below the courtyard. It is rarely used now. I cannot unravel this mystery, but I can see that it worries you. As to your other friends, I must tell you. They have gone down into the aqueduct. 
SUSAN: What? 
1ST ELDER: They were given light and a good map. Also they were well armed. They can be in no danger.

[Cavern]

IAN: There's no doubt about it, Doctor. The inside filament's been removed. These weapons are useless. 
DOCTOR: It's only one of our troubles, dear boy. Look at this map. It's no good to us. Look, all the lines have been altered. Somebody's been jiggering around with it. 
IAN: We'll get out of here somehow, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, in time. But have we got that time? Remember, we brought no food with us and the only water available is that poisoned water out there with Deadly Nightshade. A charming outlook.

[Disintegrator room]

CAROL: How long are you going to keep me here? 
ENGINEER: That is not for me to say. 
CAROL: Look, I've had nothing to eat and I'm very thirsty. 
ENGINEER: It is of no consequence. 
CAROL: But I wrote the letter. 
ENGINEER: But surely you did not think you would be released? All human creatures are naive. They live while they have a purpose. As soon as that purpose is achieved, then their life has no value left. 
(John tries to sneak in, but is spotted. The Engineer grabs a power lead) 
ENGINEER: Stop. I've only to touch her with this and she will die. 
JOHN: Don't be foolish. Put it down. 
ENGINEER: No Sensorite should be humbled before a human creature! 
(Carol pulls at the other end of the cable and the machine sparks and smokes) 
JOHN: Throw it down. Throw it down! 
(The Senior Warrior enters) 
JOHN: Take him to the First Elder. 
WARRIOR: I have already imprisoned you once. This time you will not escape. 
CAROL: Oh, John.

[Reception room]

1ST ELDER: This is very serious. That Sensorite was imprisoned on my order. Now I find he has escaped and kidnapped one of the human beings. 
ADMINISTRATOR: He is a menace to our society. 
1ST ELDER: I agree. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Let him be punished. 
1ST ELDER: He shall be. We must also find who his accomplice is. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Ah. So you believe that another Sensorite is working with him? 
1ST ELDER: Obviously. He had to guard the girl Carol. Who then delivered the letter she was forced to write? 
(Susan and Barbara enter) 
1ST ELDER: What I cannot tolerate is accusation. I must have clear and definite proof. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Yes, sir. Clear and definite proof. 
1ST ELDER: Come in, my friends. You have been questioning this Sensorite who has acted so treacherously? 
SUSAN: Yes, and what he told us is terrifying. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Has he identified his accomplice? 
BARBARA: No. 
SUSAN: Not yet. 
BARBARA: But he did say that the maps and the guns given to the Doctor and Ian are quite useless. 
1ST ELDER: Outrageous. This Sensorite will die for this. 
SUSAN: Yes, but what about Grandfather and Ian? 
1ST ELDER: What can I say? Lost and unarmed in the aqueduct. 
BARBARA: I'm afraid that answer isn't good enough. 
ADMINISTRATOR: Do not be insolent to the First Elder! 
BARBARA: Look, you must decide who your friends are, and save them. 
1ST ELDER: There is nothing I can do. 
BARBARA: Is there an authentic map to the aqueduct? 
1ST ELDER: Yes. 
BARBARA: Well, if Susan and I can find a way to rescue them, will you help us? 
ADMINISTRATOR: I am suspicious of these creatures, sir. They ask too much. 
1ST ELDER: That other human being, the Doctor, he found a cure for our people. He has placed his life in danger for the sake of the Sensorite nation. Yes, I will give you all the help I can.

[Tunnels]

IAN: Well, whatever's out there hasn't attacked us yet. 
(Roaring sound) 
DOCTOR: Courage, my boy, both hands. Come on. 
IAN: Doctor. Something moved slightly up ahead of us. 
(The Doctor rolls up the map to make a club and gives it to Ian. He sneaks up on something or someone but they get away) 
IAN: Doctor, it was a man! I know it was. 
DOCTOR: Are you sure? 
IAN: Yes. Look. This came away in the struggle. 
DOCTOR: It looks like a shoulder flash. I-N-E-E-R. Yes, just as I suspected. It must be one of those survivors from the spaceship that exploded. 
IAN: Why should they come here? 
DOCTOR: To hide and poison the water. 
IAN: Yes, but why poison the water in the first place. 
DOCTOR: Let's go and ask him.

[Reception room]

(There's a scale model on a table) 
BARBARA: This is the entrance to the aqueduct. 
1ST ELDER: Yes. 
BARBARA: Tell me, do you think I could use one of your mind transmitters? 
1ST ELDER: You have my permission to try. But how will it help you? 
BARBARA: John and I will go down to the aqueduct, Susan will stay here and direct us. 
SUSAN: Yes, then we can guide them both out. 
1ST ELDER: My scientists tell me that you do not require the use of our mind transmitter. 
SUSAN: Well, I've always been able to read your mind, but only when you allowed me to. 
1ST ELDER: Your mind must be finely tuned. The frequencies covering the surface of the Sensphere are numerous. You must be able to break in on the major ones. 
BARBARA: Well I can't. Do you mind if I try your invention? 
1ST ELDER: Hold it to your forehead and try to close your mind to everything but the person to whom you wish to communicate. It is safe provided you do not allow your concentration to slip. 
BARBARA: All right. Susan, let's try a little experiment. 
SUSAN: Right. (a moment of telepathy) The entrance to the aqueduct is there. 
BARBARA: It works. Well, there's no point in delaying. As soon as John and I reach the entrance, you start directing us. All right? 
SUSAN: All right. Carol'll be here to help me. 
BARBARA: Good. Oh, by the way, I would like one of your warriors left here with Susan. 
SUSAN: Yes, one that you trust implicitly. 
1ST ELDER: I trust all Sensorites. You will be guarded safely. 
SUSAN: Thank you. Please find them, Barbara. 
(Barbara leaves) 
1ST ELDER: A very capable human being. 
SUSAN: Yes, she is. 
1ST ELDER: Gentle, yet with strong determination and courage. 
BOTH: I was going to 
SUSAN: I was going to say, why do you trust your people? 
1ST ELDER: Why do you want to make me doubt them? 
SUSAN: Trust can't be taken for granted. It must be earned. I trust you, but only because I know you. 
1ST ELDER: But Susan, our whole life is based on trust. 
SUSAN: Yes, and that might be your downfall. Look you don't trust the ground you walk on until you know it's firm, do you. So why trust your people blindly? 
1ST ELDER: When I listen to you, you who are so young among your own kind, I realise that we Sensorites have a lot to learn from the people of Earth. 
SUSAN: Grandfather and I don't come from Earth. Oh, it's ages since we've seen our planet. It's quite like Earth, but at night the sky is a burned orange, and the leaves on the trees are bright silver. 
1ST ELDER: My mind tells me that you wish to see your home again, and yet there is a part of you which calls for adventure. A wanderlust. 
SUSAN: Yes. Well, we'll all go home some day. That's if you'll let us. 
1ST ELDER: I think I will.

[Tunnels]

IAN: We could be going round in circles. 
DOCTOR: No, no, my boy. No, no, no, no. I'm marking these, the sections, the pipes. 
IAN: Uncanny. It's so quiet. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Perhaps they're preparing an ambush. 
IAN: You're a cheerful soul, I must say. 
DOCTOR: I assure you, dear boy, my spirits couldn't be higher. Collecting evidence, circumstantial or otherwise, calculating it, pursuing it until it's inevitable. It's fascinating. 
(Ian is staring at a bearded figure) 
IAN: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't interrupt, young boy. It's most irritating. 
(Then the Doctor sees a figure too) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton. 
IAN: I know. I've been trying to tell you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, it's all right. Let's back up and perhaps we can jump out on them. 
(Then they realise they are caught between two people) 
IAN: You were right about the ambush, weren't you. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Don't do anything to alarm them. 
MAN 1: (nearest the Doctor) You have come at last. 
DOCTOR: We came to find you. 
IAN: That's right. 
MAN 2; Watch them, Number One. 
MAN 1: We have been waiting for you. Are they all dead? 
DOCTOR: Dead? 
IAN: The Sensorites, you mean? 
MAN 1: Yes, the Sensorites. Do you have a spaceship? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
MAN 1: Are there more of you? 
IAN: No. 
MAN 2: No others in the channels at all? You haven't brought the Sensorites with you? 
IAN: No. 
DOCTOR: Wouldn't you like to leave these tunnels and go out into the sunshine again? 
MAN 1: No, they would hear our minds talking. Follow me. He is going to talk to you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I thought there'd be a third. 
MAN 1: Yes, the Commander. You'll have to talk to him. Follow me. 
(Meanwhile, John and Barbara arrive at the aqueduct, and Barbara contacts Susan)

[Reception room]

SUSAN: They're entering the aqueduct now. It's a little indistinct. 
CAROL: Well, tell her to speak to you. You do the same. 
SUSAN: All right. Barbara, speak the words as you think them. Oh, that's better.

[Aqueduct]

BARBARA: Yes, all right, Susan. We're to go straight ahead to start with, and then keep turning to the right. 
JOHN: Right. I'll lead.

[Reception room]

SUSAN: They're beginning now.

[Tunnels]

MAN 1: You'll give us your word you're alone. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, definitely.

JOHN: There's something here. It's the Doctor's map, all right. I remember the senior Scientist drawing it in the laboratory. 
BARBARA: But it's all screwed up. They must have realised it was useless. 
JOHN: Shall we take it with us? 
BARBARA: Yes, we'll need it as proof that the maps were tampered with.

[Reception room]

1ST ELDER: How is it progressing? 
SUSAN: They haven't found them yet. 
CAROL: Well, at least they found the map. 
SUSAN: Oh, Barbara's talking to me again.

[Tunnels]

JOHN: No doubt about it. 
BARBARA: John says this is a fresh mark, probably made by the Doctor. We're going to try and follow these marks, Susan. So instead of you directing us, we'll tell you what route we're going to take. 
JOHN: Let's hope they were made by the Doctor, that's all.

(The Doctor marks another pipe with chalk) 
DOCTOR: In case we have to make a run for it, my boy. 
IAN: I'm glad you're on my side, Doctor.

[Reception room]

SUSAN: That's right, Barbara. She's going down this channel now. 
1ST ELDER: And no harm has come to them yet. Perhaps the Doctor and Ian are chasing the creatures in the aqueduct. 
SUSAN: Or they've been captured.

[Tunnels]

MAN 1: Wait here. The new arrivals are here, Commander. 
COMMANDER: This is the best news I've had for a long time. (shakes their hands) I'm very glad to see you both. Did you have a rough journey? Yes, of course. I'm sure you must have done. Let's have something to sit down on, Number One. 
MAN 1: Yes, sir. They're very rough quarters here. You'll have to excuse that. But I'm sure you're both used to battle stations by now. Yes. Excuse me. Number Two, you can take over ammunition detail now. You'll find the new supplies all ready. Hide it into pipe number seven this time. All right, carry on. 
(Man 2 leaves) 
COMMANDER: Number One? 
MAN 1: Yes, sir. 
COMMANDER: Organise a lecture for Number Two, will you? Civility isn't for me, you understand, it's for the uniform. Understood? 
MAN 1: Yes, sir. 
COMMANDER: Have to keep discipline up, you know. But they're all good men. Very fine, Morale's very high here. Sit down. 
IAN: Well, you have a very well ordered base here, sir. 
COMMANDER: It's very good of you to say so. 
DOCTOR: We have a surprise for you. The war with the Sensorites is over. 
COMMANDER: Is that true? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. 
COMMANDER: And the planet's ours now, is it? Completely? 
IAN: Completely. 
COMMANDER: Well, this is absolutely wonderful! We nearly lost, you know. I had command of a fine spaceship, very fine. Two of my men deserted, pretended they had to go back to Earth to get reinforcements. 
DOCTOR: So you had to blow up your spaceship. 
COMMANDER: Yes. Still, I suppose I'll get another one. I'll be able to afford it now. Planet's very rich 
IAN: Oh, yes. Molybdenum. 
COMMANDER: Oh, you know about that, do you? You do realise this war has been fought by me and my men here. Any treasure trove is ours. 
DOCTOR: That's quite understandable, isn't it, Chesterton. 
COMMANDER: And I'm prepared to back that statement up with force, if necessary. I have good supplies here. Loyal men. Of course, we're just discussing this. But you are alone, aren't you. Hardly in a position to fight me. And I have my men, and my organisation. 
MAN 1: Commander. Warning in route two. 
COMMANDER: What? Have you been telling me lies? You've brought other people with you, haven't you? 
MAN 1: Perhaps they're really allies of the Sensorites. 
COMMANDER: No, Number One, not allies. Spies. The war isn't over at all, is it. I thought it was a bit too good to be true. 
IAN: Now just a minutes. We knew nothing this warning system of yours 
COMMANDER: No, of course you didn't, and it's tripped you up, hasn't it? Number One, there'll be a court martial. Immediately. Treason. 
IAN: Barbara! 
BARBARA: Ian. 
IAN: What on Earth are you doing here? 
(babble of greetings between the four) 
COMMANDER: What's this? Who are these people? 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid you misjudged us, sir. These people are part of the committee, here to welcome you. We all came down here to take you out again to the surface. 
IAN: To celebrate your success, sir. 
BARBARA: What's going on? 
IAN: Play it cool. 
COMMANDER: And who is this? 
IAN: This is our navigator. She is going to lead us back. 
COMMANDER: Well, I'm glad the fighting's over. Look forward to a bit of a rest now for a while. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you deserve it, sir. So do your men. And I think the sooner we take you out into the sunshine, the better. 
COMMANDER: Number One, assemble the men, please. We'll be leaving immediately. It seems we have a victory to celebrate. You might pass on my congratulations to the men, Number One. 
MAN 1: Thank you very much, sir. 
COMMANDER: Shall we move, then?

[Aqueduct]

(The chief Warrior and a guard are getting their instructions) 
WARRIOR: They are coming. You will take up your position just by the entrance, there. When they have all come through, you will step out and prevent anyone from escaping back into the aqueduct. Now take your place. 
(Two ragged men, John, Barbara and Ian emerge) 
WARRIOR: It is useless to resist. 
(The men drop their pointed sticks) 
IAN: Don't worry. I think we can handle these two. Lead on, Barbara. 
(They go off, and the Doctor and the Commander come out) 
COMMANDER: Come back here, you men. Treachery. 
DOCTOR: It's all over now. 
COMMANDER: Treachery! 
(The Warrior uses his paralyser on him) 
DOCTOR: Pitiful fellow. Oh, I know he did your people incalculable harm. 
WARRIOR: I could have killed him. I wanted to. But that would not be the way, would it. 
DOCTOR: No. 
WARRIOR: He could have destroyed the entire Sensorite nation. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but the fact is, you didn't kill him. Shows great promise for the future of your people.

[Reception room]

IAN: Captain Maitland has agreed to take the others back to Earth. 
BARBARA: They were completely insane. They really believed they were at war with you. 
1ST ELDER: At some time, they must have opened their minds, or experimented with the mind transmitters. Every really rational thought was crushed out, and all they had left was the game they played. The game of war. 
BARBARA: What about the Second Elder? 
1ST ELDER: You finding the map proves his treachery. He will be banished to the outer wastes. 
IAN: Well, I think we must go back to the ship, sir. 
1ST ELDER: Yes, you must go. The lock has already been sealed back in it's proper place. So go your way now, and take the gratitude of the Sensorites with you. 
IAN: Thank you. 
BARBARA: Goodbye.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Where are those other two, hmm? 
SUSAN: They're coming. 
DOCTOR: What's the matter, my child? 
SUSAN: I had a talk with the senior Scientist just before we left. It seems that the Sensphere has an extraordinary number of ultra high frequencies, so I won't be able to go on using thought transference. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't know. It's rather a relief, I think. After all, no one likes an eavesdropper about, do they. No, I think you obviously have a gift in that direction. When we get home to our own place, I think we should try and perfect it. 
SUSAN: When will we get back, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: I don't know, my dear. This old ship of mine seems to be an aimless thing. However, we don't worry about it, do we? Do you? 
SUSAN: Sometimes I feel I'd like to belong somewhere, not just be a wanderer. Still, I'm not unhappy. 
DOCTOR: Good, good. 
(Ian and Barbara enter) 
IAN: Well, here we are. 
DOCTOR: Always last. I very nearly went off without you. 
BARBARA: We were saying goodbye to John and Carol. 
DOCTOR: Let's have a look at Maitland and see him off, shall we? 
(The scanner shows the ship heading into the stars) 
IAN: Well, at least they know where they're going. 
DOCTOR: Implying I don't? 
IAN: I didn't mean anything 
DOCTOR: So, you think I'm an incompetent old fool, do you? 
IAN: Now, Doctor, I never said that. 
DOCTOR: Since you are so dissatisfied, my boy, you can get off the ship. At the very next place we stop, I shall take you off myself, and that is quite final. Carry on.

[Forest]

(24 July, 1794 Two men dressed in unseasonably heavy cloaks move cautiously through the trees) 
(Moments later, the Tardis materialises in a clearing by a meadow)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: There we are. Home. 
BARBARA: Doctor, we 
DOCTOR: It's all right. Chesterton made the position quite clear. Now, I have some work to do. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, please. 
DOCTOR: Hush, child. Say your goodbyes and remember, we shall be leaving almost immediately. 
IAN: Do you have to be in such a hurry? 
DOCTOR: Enough time has been wasted bringing you back, young man. I have the universe to explore. 
SUSAN: Must you go? 
BARBARA: Susan, we've visited many places together, had lots of adventures, but you always knew we intended to return home when we could. 
SUSAN: Yes, I know, but 
BARBARA: Look, I know it's hard to say goodbye, but one day you'll understand why we had to. 
SUSAN: But Grandfather can bring you back any time now. 
IAN: Don't you see, Susan, the longer we leave it the harder it'll be. 
(Susan hugs them then leaves) 
DOCTOR: Hmm. Still here? 
IAN: Yes, we're waiting for you to carry out the checks. 
DOCTOR: Quite unnecessary. 
IAN: Oh is it? Are you so certain you know where we are? 
DOCTOR: Certain? Of course I'm certain. If you doubt me, take a look for yourselves. 
(switches on the scanner.) 
DOCTOR: Perhaps that will satisfy you. 
BARBARA: Mmm. It could be, I suppose. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Obviously you're still in doubt. Let us take a longer look, through the trees, hmm? 
BARBARA: Ian, look. Fields, crops, it's fully cultivated! 
IAN: Yes. Pity it's so dark. I can't see a sign of any buildings. 
BARBARA: You know, it reminds me of a holiday I once took in Somerset. 
DOCTOR: Then I expect it is Somerset, my dear. Well, if you're going, be off with you. 
IAN: Look Doctor, I think it'd be better if you came with us. At least to explore. 
DOCTOR: It's out of the question. I refuse to leave the ship. 
IAN: Maybe you have succeeded. Maybe we are where you say we are. But I remember an occasion when you took us home once before. 
BARBARA: Yes, and we met Marco Polo. 
DOCTOR: Entirely different circumstances! I'm rather tired of your insinuations that I am not master of this craft. Oh, I admit, it did develop a fault, a minor fault on one occasion, perhaps twice, but nothing I couldn't control. 
IAN: I know that. Of course you're in control. You're always in control. And I'm sure you could revisit us at any time. 
DOCTOR: Very simple. Quite simple. 
IAN: Exactly, quite simple. But you have your important researches to complete. You may not find the time. There's a chance that we won't meet again. Don't you think it would be better if we parted under more friendly circumstances, say over a drink? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, well perhaps, since you put it that way, an hour or two won't come amiss. Susan, bring my stick will you? 
SUSAN: Yes, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: I'm going to see Ian and Barbara back home safely. 
(Susan and the Doctor leave) 
BARBARA: Well done, Ian. I say, do you think we really are home? 
IAN: I don't know. Won't take us long to find out, will it? Come on.

[Forest]

(The Doctor locks the Tardis as the others look around) 
DOCTOR: Well? 
BARBARA: Well those crops suggest a manor or farmhouse. It should be reasonably close. 
SUSAN: It's very warm, isn't it? It must be summertime. Ian? 
IAN: Yes? 
SUSAN: Why aren't there any lights? 
IAN: That's a point. It's dusk, and we've got a very good view from here. 
BARBARA: Well, towns and villages can be well-spaced, even in England. 
DOCTOR: Are we going to stand here talking all night, hmm? Hmm? 
(there's a movement in the bushes) 
IAN: All right, Susan, I saw it. Keep talking. 
SUSAN: All right. Be careful though. 
(Ian circles through the trees) 
BARBARA: Did you see what it was? 
SUSAN: No, I didn't. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps it was a rabbit. Do you know, Chesterton's getting quite jumpy these days. Young man like him shouldn't suffer from nerves. 
(Ian reappears with a boy) 
BARBARA: Well, that rabbit of yours is putting up quite a fight. Ian, you're hurting him! 
IAN: Oh, no, I'm not! 
DOCTOR: Come here, my boy. Where are we? Where do you live, hmm? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, you're frightening him. We're your friends. Don't be afraid. 
BARBARA: Look at him. He's absolutely terrified. 
IAN: Yes. Of us, or of something else? 
DOCTOR: Come along, answer my questions, boy. 
JEAN PIERRE: Please, I've done nothing. 
IAN: We're not going to hurt you. 
BARBARA: No of course, we're not. Look, we've lost our way and we need you help. This is England, isn't it? 
JEAN PIERRE: England? No, France. 
IAN: France? Well, how far from Paris? 
JEAN PIERRE: Not far. Twelve kilometres. 
IAN: Oh, that's something, I suppose. 
DOCTOR: Paris, eh? A hundred miles or so either way is to be expected. After all, it's only a fraction of the distance we've covered. It's quite accurate, in fact. 
IAN: Yes. Assuming the distance is our only error. You know, Doctor, I have a feeling you've been building up our hopes again. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense. Let's have a word with the boy. Now look here, my boy. Hold still 
(Jean Pierre makes a break for it.) 
IAN: We lost him. 
DOCTOR: You don't say. 
IAN: Pity. Probably knows these woods like the back of his hand. 
SUSAN: I wonder why he was so afraid.

[Farm]

(a nearby farmhouse with derelict outbuildings and a crumbling stone wall. Jean Pierre knocks at the door and goes inside)

[Track]

DOCTOR: Chesterton, there's a house. Look, straight ahead of us. 
IAN: Yes. What do you make of it, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Well, it looks deserted. You know, I'm certain we're sometime in the past. 
IAN: Yes. Well, we were a hundred miles out. Perhaps we're a hundred years out. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish, rubbish. 
BARBARA: Well, it's possible. 
IAN: You know, I think we ought to get back to the ship while we still can. 
DOCTOR: Nonsense. It was your idea to explore, anyway. Besides, that might be very interesting. The walk will do us good. 
SUSAN: Come on, you two. You don't want to be lost in the dark. 
IAN: Don't worry, we're right behind you. 
BARBARA: Well, we're still not home. 
IAN: No, we're not, are we? Still, I do think he tried this time, even if it was out of bad temper. 
BARBARA: So we stay with the ship. 
IAN: Yes. Cheered Susan up, hasn't it? 
BARBARA: Well, are you disappointed? 
IAN: Funny enough, no. I don't know. Depends where we are. I still could be. 
SUSAN: Ian! Barbara! 
BARBARA: Well, we'd better join the others.

[Farmyard]

(The Doctor and Susan go into the courtyard) 
DOCTOR: It looks uninhabited. I wonder if we can get in? 
(Ian and Barbara enter.) 
BARBARA: Did you find anything? 
SUSAN: Not yet. Grandfather's seeing if he can get in. 
IAN: Oh, is he now? 
(The Doctor is looking through a dirty window) 
IAN: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I say, take a look through there, will you? I think your eyes are sharper than mine. 
IAN: Too dark to see anything, Doctor. No, I don't think anyone's lived here for years. Doctor? Doctor? 
DOCTOR: We're in luck. The door's unlocked.

[Farmhouse]

(There are two fancy candlesticks on the table. The Doctor lights the candles) 
DOCTOR: I'll take upstairs and you search down. 
IAN: All right. 
(The Doctor goes through the door to the stairs.) 
BARBARA: Where's the Doctor? 
IAN: He's gone upstairs. Look at this. What do you think a candlestick like that's doing in a place like this? 
BARBARA: I don't know. 
IAN: Here's a tinderbox. 
SUSAN: Look at this! 
(it's a chest full of clothes) 
BARBARA: Hey, this is eighteenth century. 
SUSAN: Look at this one! 
BARBARA: You know, there's a whole wardrobe here. Look, they're all different sizes too. 
IAN: Look at these bundles. Bottles of wine. Bread. A bit stale. 
BARBARA: There's another bundle over here. Hey, look at all these maps. There's a whole bunch of daggers down here. 
IAN: These documents. Official documents. Undated and the name is left blank. They're passes, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Yes, but nobody lives here. I mean, look at the dust everywhere. 
IAN: This is a stopping-off place. A link in some escape chain. Here, look at this. 
BARBARA: Ian, this is signed by Robespierre! 
IAN: Robespierre? Must be a. Oh, wait a minute. The Doctor's put us down right in the middle of the French Revolution. 
BARBARA: Yes. The Reign of Terror. (Upstairs, the Doctor has been hit from behind and knocked out) 
(Downstairs, the group are getting dressed with clothes the chest) 
IAN: Doctor? Doctor? 
BARBARA: How do I look? 
IAN: Very pretty, mademoiselle. Hairstyle's a bit modern, but it's all right. It was a good idea to change into these clothes. We won't look so conspicuous when we go back to the ship. 
SUSAN: We might not get back to the ship if Grandfather hears we're in the Reign of Terror. 
IAN: Why not? 
SUSAN: It's his favourite period in the history of Earth. 
IAN: Not getting very far, are we? What on Earth's he doing up there? Come on. Let's go and find him. 
(there are two men in the doorway, with pistols.) 
ROUVRAY: Don't move. Please put that on the table. 
(the candlestick is put down.) 
ROUVRAY: Thank you. What are you doing here? 
D'ARGENSON: Don't waste time, Rouvray. Kill them. They're after us. 
ROUVRAY: I think not, but I would advise you to answer the question. 
BARBARA: We're travellers. 
SUSAN: We only stopped here til we could find our way. 
ROUVRAY: At a deserted house? 
D'ARGENSON: You'll gain nothing by this questioning. We should be moving on! 
ROUVRAY: Patience, d'Argenson, even in these troubled times our visitors have the right of an explanation, even if our enemies do not accord such privileges. 
IAN: We're not your enemies. We are what we say we are, travellers. 
ROUVRAY: When you entered our hideout, you entered our lives. Do you travel alone? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
D'ARGENSON: You see, they lie! 
ROUVRAY: We found the old man upstairs. Do not count on his assistance. 
SUSAN: What have you done with him? 
ROUVRAY: At the moment he's safe. It was in your power to see that he came to no harm. But your answer proves that you do not speak truthfully. There is something you are concealing. 
IAN: It doesn't concern you. 
D'ARGENSON: We must be leaving now. The soldiers will have followed! 
ROUVRAY: In France now there are only two sides. You're either with us or against us. Our sympathies are obvious. We want to know yours. 
BARBARA: We appreciate what you say, but we have no side. We're not even French. 
ROUVRAY: A word of warning. If you intend to stay in France you will have to choose. 
D'ARGENSON: We cannot trust them now! 
ROUVRAY: If we are to escape from France, we must have faith. If all people are incapable of our trust, we shall take the Terror with us. 
SUSAN: Where is my Grandfather? 
ROUVRAY: The old man? D'Argenson, go. 
IAN: Shh! Listen. 
(armed men emerge from the forest) 
D'ARGENSON: The soldiers! They've found us! 
ROUVRAY: Quiet. 
D'ARGENSON: But they'll take us to Paris, to the guillotine. Rouvray, I can't, I can't let that happen. My whole family were executed, even my younger sister. They came to the house while I was out and they dragged them away. Rouvray, we must go while we have the chance! 
ROUVRAY: They will see us. Our only hope is to stay here and hide. They may pass. 
IAN: They're coming in. 
D'ARGENSON: It will be the guillotine for all of us! 
ROUVRAY: D'Argenson. D'Argenson, quiet! 
(Rouvray gives Ian his spare pistol.)

[Farmyard]

SERGEANT: (to soldiers) Wait here! The pigs will still be running. They won't have stopped yet. 
LIEUTENANT: This is their route according to our information, sergeant. They could be hiding in this house. 
SERGEANT: I'll have the men search the place. 
LIEUTENANT: No. No, let's let them rest. They've had a long march. We'll cover the back. 
SERGEANT: We'll block their escape. 
LIEUTENANT: If they are in there, we can let them suffer the waiting. 
SERGEANT: You. Round the back. 
SOLDIER: Go yourself, citizen! 
(The other soldiers laugh.) 
SERGEANT: And if they run, you'll have the chance of stopping them. 
SOLDIER: Yes. It's a long time since I had a royalist to myself. 
SERGEANT: Keep your eyes open. 
SOLDIER: Don't worry. They won't get past me.

[Farmhouse]

IAN: They're not coming in. 
ROUVRAY: No. The intention is to break our nerve. 
(as they wait) 
ROUVRAY: and then we were warned to leave or face arrest and execution. Friends warn us, and friends denounce us. 
IAN: It seems the soldiers followed you. Who knew you were taking this road? 
ROUVRAY: Who indeed. It's difficult to have secrets these days. 
SUSAN: Ian. Grandfather. 
ROUVRAY: The old man? He's upstairs somewhere. D'Argenson? You dealt with him. 
IAN: Never mind. I'll find him. 
(Ian goes upstairs and D'Argenson runs for the door) 
ROUVRAY: D'Argenson! Come back! You fool!

[Farmyard]

(D'Argenson is surrounded. No one notices Rouvray until) 
LIEUTENANT: Sergeant! Rouvray. 
ROUVRAY: Don't move! And get away from that man. 
LIEUTENANT: Take him! 
ROUVRAY: You'll listen to me! 
(he steps in front of D'Argenson) 
LIEUTENANT: So Rouvray, your voice still carries authority, even to my soldiers. 
ROUVRAY: You. Come here. Give it to me. 
(he takes a musket from a soldier and throws it away) 
ROUVRAY: You can give them uniforms, Lieutenant, but they remain peasants underneath. 
(another soldier shoots Rouvray) 
SOLDIER: Let's get the other one! Hold him! Hold him! 
(D'Argenson is grabbed. The Lieutenant checks Rouvray's body) 
LIEUTENANT: A desperate attempt, and it very nearly worked. 
(the soldiers shoot D'Argenson, and laugh)

[Farmhouse, upstairs]

IAN: Doctor? Doctor? Where are you? 
(The Doctor is still out cold in a locked room. Susan screams and Ian goes downstairs)

[Farmhouse]

(Ian is caught by the soldiers and disarmed) 
LIEUTENANT: My sergeant was right. It did pay us to look in the house. 
IAN: We are not 
LIEUTENANT: Silence! If any of them speak again without permission, shoot them. 
SERGEANT: The bodies have been removed, Lieutenant. What about these? 
LIEUTENANT: Outside. 
SERGEANT: Go on, you heard the Lieutenant, move! 
SOLDIER: Outside into the courtyard. 
(Upstairs, the Doctor is waking up)

[Farmyard]

(Ian, Susan and Barbara are lined up against a wall in front of a firing squad) 
SERGEANT: Load muskets! 
SOLDIER: We already have. Get out the way. 
LIEUTENANT: Stop. We take them to Paris. 
SOLDIER: No, we'll shoot them here. 
LIEUTENANT: We've got the men we came for. 
SOLDIER: Yes, and more. I say we kill them. 
LIEUTENANT: Now listen. Listen. We also want credit for our additional prisoners. LeMaitre may not believe us if he doesn't see them for himself. 
SOLDIER: That's true. 
SERGEANT: But there may be a reward. 
SOLDIER: The sergeant's right, perhaps there is a reward. 
LIEUTENANT: And besides, why should we do what Madame Guillotine can do so much better? 
SOLDIER: Let's take them to Paris. To the guillotine! 
(they untie the prisoner's feet) 
SOLDIER: Move! 
(Ian, Susan and Barbara are lead away) 
SERGEANT: Wait. We'll burn the house down! 
(He throws a burning torch into the hay loft, and others follow his example. Soon the house itself catches fire)

[Farmhouse, upstairs]

(The Doctor is surrounded by smoke, and thumps on the door)
DOCTOR: Help! Can you hear me?

[Forest]

SUSAN: Is there really no sign of him? 
BARBARA: The house! Look at the house! 
SUSAN: What about Grandfather? 
BARBARA: I'm sure he got out, Susan. 
IAN: I hope so, for all our sakes. 
SOLDIER: Get moving! 
(when they've gone, the boy Jean-Pierre comes out of the bushes)

[Farmhouse, upstairs]

DOCTOR: Hello! Hello! Can you hear me? Get me out! 
(the smoke gets to him, and the roof begins to fall in)

Episode Two - Guests of Madame Guillotine

[Office]

(Paris, 25 July 1794, morning, at Conciergerie Prison)
BARBARA: Are we to be allowed to tell our story? 
JUDGE: Prisoners are not required to speak. I have the charges here. You were found in the house with Rouvray and D'Argenson and arrested by a platoon of soldiers. I am satisfied as to your guilt as being in the company of wanted traitors. The sentence, immediate execution. 
BARBARA: We demand the right to speak. 
JUDGE: You have no rights! You will be guillotined as soon as it can be arranged. Take them to the cells!

[Jail corridor]

(Ian is put into a cell with another man) 
JAILER: Stay back, by the wall. 
BARBARA: Ian! 
SUSAN: Ian!
JAILER: Go away. Keep hold of her, can't you? (to Ian) I told you to stay back by the wall. There's nothing to interest you. 
(further along, down some steps) 
JAILER: Stay with her over there. Lady like you shouldn't be kept in this pig sty. Course, I have the keys. It wouldn't be very difficult to leave a few doors open, now, would it? 
BARBARA: No, of course not. But I couldn't pay you. I don't have any money. 
JAILER: The soldiers in this place, they're nothing but peasants. Not fit company for an intelligent man like myself. Gets very lonely in here sometimes. Very lonely indeed. Now, if we were to be friends, eh? 
(Barbara slaps him across the face)
JAILER: You'll regret that! I promise you. Here! Lock them away. No, in there. It's the cell I keep for my special guests.

[Woman's cell]

(straw on the floor, one bunk and a high barred window) 
SUSAN: The smell in here. Oh, it's terrible! 
BARBARA: Yes, it reminds me of when we were prisoners before, in the prehistoric age. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. I remember that. But there was one very important difference. Grandfather and Ian were with us then. I wish I could see where we were. Oh. You'll have to lift me up, Barbara. Barbara? 
BARBARA: Sorry. Yes. 
(Barbara lifts Susan up to the window) 
SUSAN: I can't see very much down there. It's just a prison yard. There's nothing to the right. That's no good. Oh, if only I knew where Grandfather was. 
BARBARA: He'd have got out of that house, Susan. I know he would.

[Farmyard]

(The Doctor wakes and the boy gives him a drink of water) 
DOCTOR: Yes. Thank you. Oh, It's most refreshing. Where are my fiends, hmm? 
JEAN-PIERRE: The soldiers set fire to the farmhouse and took them to Paris, to the Conciergerie Prison. They'll be locked up there before they go to the guillotine. 
DOCTOR: Oh. Oh, very brave boy. 
JEAN-PIERRE: Are you feeling all right now, sir? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think so. Thank you. It's quite remarkable. How could I ever begin to thank you? 
JEAN-PIERRE: You see, there were two men hiding in the house. One of them knocked you over the head. Then the soldiers came and the two men were shot and your friends arrested. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's a tragic business. 
JEAN-PIERRE: But you can still escape. My mother can give you some food. Our farm isn't far away. Just over there. And that way leads to Paris. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I must rescue my friends. 
JEAN-PIERRE: But you mustn't do that, sir! You'll be captured, sent to the guillotine. 
DOCTOR: You saved me, my boy, so I must rescue them. Now you can understand that, can't you? 
JEAN-PIERRE: Yes. I wish I could come with you, but since my father was taken away, he told me to look after my mother. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. Now, you're the head of the house. Yes. Yes, well I oh, thank you. Thank you for everything. And what's your name? 
JEAN-PIERRE: Jean-Pierre. 
DOCTOR: I shall remember. Yes. Jean-Pierre. Au revoir, Monsieur Captain.

[Women's cell]

(Susan and Barbara pretend to be asleep when the jailer looks in) 
BARBARA: He's going. 
SUSAN: Oh, what's the use? We'll never get out of this dreadful place. 
BARBARA: Oh, you mustn't lose heart, Susan. 
SUSAN: I'm not going to fool myself. 
BARBARA: Well, think of the times we've been in trouble before. We've always managed to get out of it in the end. 
SUSAN: Oh, we've been lucky. We can't go on being lucky. Things catch up with you. 
BARBARA: I've never heard you talk like this before. You're usually so optimistic. 
SUSAN: I want to know about Grandfather. 
BARBARA: I'm sure he's all right, Susan. 
SUSAN: You keep on saying that. I just want to know, that's all. 
BARBARA: Look, we should try and get out of here. It hasn't always been luck, you know. We made our own opportunities. Did you notice that we came past the river to get here? 
SUSAN: Oh, you're not going to dig your way out, are you? 
BARBARA: Well, why not? 
SUSAN: It's solid stone. 
BARBARA: Hey, there's a damp patch in the wall here. Hmm. Maybe a sewer leading to the river. 
SUSAN: Yes. All you need are a couple of dozen drills and a gang of men and you might, might get out. What are you looking at? 
BARBARA: Crowbars. May not be necessary to dig our way out after all. I might be able to lever up one of those stones with this. 
(Barbara uses a cross-strut from the bedframe) 
BARBARA: Look. You go over there and keep your eye open for the jailer. 
SUSAN: Shh! 
(the guards pass with a new prisoner)

[Jail corridor]

JAILER: Put him in there. 
(he looks in on Ian) 
JAILER: Don't make so much noise. You'll give the place a bad name.

[Ian's cell]

(Ian's cell mate has a bad wound) 
WEBSTER: Sorry, Ian. My side's hurting again. 
IAN: The bleeding's stopped, Webster. You've lost a lot of blood. 
WEBSTER: As soon as we were arrested we couldn't wait to pull the trigger. Is there any more water? 
IAN: Yes. Must be about the last of it. You know, I've looked this place over, and it isn't impossible to escape. 
WEBSTER: It is for me, and you know it. I'll never get up from here. Listen, you're an Englishman. You must help me. 
IAN: How? 
WEBSTER: One day soon, France will stop this madness and turn her full attention across the channel. We must be ready for that day. There's a man in France, Englishman, working to that end. He will tell us when that day is near. You understand? 
IAN: England at war with France? Yes, I know that. 
WEBSTER: I was sent to bring him home to England. The day nears that his information is important. Find him if you can. Try to escape. Try. Promise to find James Stirling, and home. Promise! Promise! 
IAN: Yes, yes. James Stirling. Find James Stirling and tell him to get back to England. He has important information. I understand and I promise. Where shall I find him, Webster? 
WEBSTER: Jules Renan. 
IAN: Jules Renan, yes. 
WEBSTER: The sign of Le Chien Gris. 
IAN: Le Chien Gris. 
(Webster dies, at peace)

[The road to Paris]

(a group of men are working by the roadside) 
OVERSEER: Come on, put your backs into it. You can work faster than that. 
DOCTOR: Good day. Pleasant day, sir. 
OVERSEER: Yes, it is. 
DOCTOR: I wonder if you can assist me. I'm bound for Paris. Am I still on the right road? 
OVERSEER: You are. 
DOCTOR: Splendid. Splendid. I was beginning to have my doubts. I haven't seen a soul for hours. 
OVERSEER: You've come a long way? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Further than you would think. 
OVERSEER: Get on with your work! Nobody told you to stop. I have to watch them all the time. I don't even know why they bother to put them to work. You know what I'd do with tax dodgers? 
DOCTOR: Oh, so they're not volunteers, eh? 
OVERSEER: Volunteers? Ha. I have to watch them every second. I'm given a schedule. Finish this section by tomorrow, they told me. And if I don't 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite a responsibility. 
OVERSEER: But it'll be finished, even if I have to drive every one of them into the ground. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see you believe in drastic measures, eh? 
OVERSEER: Now, put your backs into it. Look as if you mean it. The sooner its finished, the better it'll be for all of us. 
DOCTOR: I'm sure you're very experienced at this job, my man. But, as an impartial onlooker I think I might have a bit of an advice to give you. 
OVERSEER: Well, I'll listen to anything that'll get this job finished quickly. 
DOCTOR: Well, if you were to expend your energy helping with the road, instead of bawling and shouting at them every few seconds, you might be able to get somewhere. Good day to you, sir! 
OVERSEER: I suppose you think you're very clever. 
DOCTOR: Well, without any undue modesty, yes! Now, would you mind standing aside? 
OVERSEER: Now, show me your papers, or something to prove your identity. 
DOCTOR: I am not in the habit of 
OVERSEER: I see. You can't prove your identity. Have you paid your taxes? No? Then perhaps you'd join the poor wretches and put your energy to better use. Give him a pick. 
OVERSEER: Now get to work, skinny. I shouldn't try to run away. Remember, I've got this. 
(it's a gun) 
DOCTOR: Common fellow. 
OVERSEER: Well, what are you waiting for? Get to work! I'll complete that schedule yet.

[Women's cell]

BARBARA: Oh, I must rest. It's tearing my hands to pieces. 
SUSAN: Well, shall I take over? 
BARBARA: No, no. Your hands are worse than mine. 
SUSAN: I wonder what Ian's doing? Barbara, I think I'll work. It takes my mind off things. 
(she hits herself instead of the damp stonework) 
SUSAN: Oh! 
BARBARA: Come on, we'll rest. 
SUSAN: I can't do it, Barbara. 
BARBARA: And we'll start again later. We've make good progress. We should be through soon. 
SUSAN: It takes so long. Still, we have done well, haven't we? Someone's coming. Barbara, they're coming for us! 
JAILER: There's your food. A waste if you ask me. What are they doing down there? 
BARBARA: What? 
JAILER: The blankets. I'm responsible for everything in the cells. Pick them up! All right, all right. It gets cold at night. You'll get no others. 
LEMAITRE [OC]: Jailer! 
JAILER: LeMaitre. 
LEMAITRE [OC]: Jailer! 
JAILER: Coming, Citizen!

[Ian's cell]

LEMAITRE: How long has he been dead? I asked how long he's been dead. 
IAN: Several hours, citizen. 
LEMAITRE: Did he speak? 
IAN: No. No, he didn't.

[Jailer's office]

LEMAITRE: I'll ask you once more. Did they talk to each other? 
JAILER: Well, they may have done so, citizen, but, well 
LEMAITRE: Just simply tell me if you heard their voices. 
JAILER: Yes. Well, yes, citizen. he did. I didn't know what he said, but I definitely heard them speak. But not for long. 
LEMAITRE: Let me have the execution list. 
JAILER: At once, citizen! 
LEMAITRE: The other prisoner, which one is he? 
JAILER: Ian Chesterton. 
(LeMaitre crosses out Ian's name) 
LEMAITRE: Have the body removed from the cell. 
JAILER: Yes, citizen. Guards!

[Women's cell]

(Susan and Barbara are eating) 
SUSAN: Well, I felt sure he'd discover that. 
BARBARA: Yes, so did I. You know, I'd no idea how hungry I was. Or what I'd eat. 
SUSAN: I think I'll get back to work now. 
BARBARA: Oh. no, it was my turn, Susan. 
SUSAN: No, it's all right. (a little shriek) 
BARBARA: What is it? 
SUSAN: Rats! 
BARBARA: Rats? 
SUSAN: They must have smelt the food. Barbara, there's rats down there. 
(Barbara puts the blankets into the hole they've made) 
SUSAN: Barbara. I can't do it anymore. Not with those down there. I can't do it! I can't! 
BARBARA: They won't come in. Not now. We won't do any more digging. We'll just stay where we are.

[The road to Paris]

DOCTOR: It's the tenth time he's counted his wealth. 
PEASANT: He does it all the time. Some of us thinks he likes money better than he likes himself. 
DOCTOR: Do any of you got any money, hmm? 
PEASANT: Would we be here if we had? 
DOCTOR: You want to leave here, don't you? 
PEASANT: Well, yes, but how? He never goes anywhere without that pistol and he never turns his back! 
DOCTOR: Well, do as I say. Follow me. 
(The Doctor points into the sky) 
DOCTOR: Ah! Ah, ha! Yes, there it is. 
OVERSEER: What's this? What are you staring at? 
DOCTOR: We're waiting for the eclipse, look. 
OVERSEER: Eclipse? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
PEASANT: He said the moon is going to pass in front of the sun at any moment. See! Look! 
DOCTOR: Yes, you've heard about it, haven't you? 
OVERSEER: Yes, yes, yes. I've heard. 
DOCTOR: Yes. It's quite a phenomenon, isn't it? Yes. 
OVERSEER: All right, all right. We'll see it when it happens. Until then, get back to work. Now! 
(meanwhile, the Doctor has stolen several gold coins from the overseer's purse. He drops them into the soil and covers them, then pretends to find one again) 
DOCTOR: Ah! Look! Look at the coin! 
OVERSEER: What's wrong now? 
DOCTOR: I've just found this coin down there. It must come from some hidden treasure. 
OVERSEER: Treasure? More likely dropped by a passing traveller. 
DOCTOR: No, no, definitely a hidden treasure. 
OVERSEER: Now where were you digging? 
DOCTOR: Just there. Just there. 
(the overseer begins to dig) 
OVERSEER: Here's another. 
DOCTOR: Catch his spade! Stop! 
OVERSEER: Just stand back! It's nothing to do with you. Nothing! I'll do the digging and then it'll be mine. Now stand back. 
(the Doctor takes a shovel and hits the overseer over the head)
PEASANT: Sacre bleu! 
(the press ganged workers flee) 
DOCTOR: Good day to you, sir! Pleasant dreams.

[Jail corridor]

JAILER: All right you two, come on out. Stand in line. 
SUSAN: Where's Ian? 
JAILER: Was that your friend? He was lucky. LeMaitre crossed him off the list. You're not so fortunate. This batch for the guillotine! Take them away!

[Ian's cell]

(Ian sees the women being taken to the tumbril through his window) 
IAN: Barbara. Susan.

Episode Three - A Change of Identity

[Street]

(Evening. The Doctor has arrived in Paris. Near the prison, two armed men are hiding)
JEAN: A tumbril should have passed by now, Jules.
JULES: You must try and cultivate patience, my friend. It will stand you in good stead. 
JEAN: I will never get used to the waiting. If only it wasn't so quiet. 
JULES: That's why we're here, Jean. A crowded street and a successful rescue will never mix. 
JEAN: I know. But it is late. Perhaps they've taken another route? 
JULES: No, they'll come this way. They always do. Are you ready? 
JEAN: Yes, I'm ready. How many soldiers do you think there'll be? 
JULES: Six, maybe five. 
JEAN: It's a pity Leon isn't with us today. The odds would have been more favourable. 
JULES: Yes, I admit Leon would have been a great help, but don't forget we have surprise on our side. It is worth three men. 
JEAN: They must have left the prison later than usual.

[Jail corridor]

(It is meal time for the prisoners. Bowls of gruel are being delivered) 
JAILER: (to Ian) If you want some food, get back against the wall and stay there! 
(The jailer is relocking the door when LeMaitre appears) 
LEMAITRE: Jailer! 
JAILER: Yes, citizen? Yes? 
LEMAITRE: Here. Immediately! 
JAILER: Coming. Coming, citizen! 
LEMAITRE: Jailer! 
(The key has stuck in the lock. The jailer decides to leave it where it is and rushes to LeMaitre)

[Jailer's office]

LEMAITRE: Didn't you hear me calling you? 
JAILER: I'm sorry, citizen, I came as fast as I could. I was busy with the food. 
LEMAITRE: Prison food is unimportant! You realise that Robespierre will be asking to see the execution figures? 
JAILER: I have them ready, citizen. 
LEMAITRE: I hope for your sake that they're satisfactory. Otherwise, instead of being jailer here, you could find yourself a prisoner.

[Ian's cell]

(Ian goes to get his bowl, looks through the door bars and notices the keys in the lock. He reaches through the bars and gently works the keys out of the lock. He takes his own cell key from the cluster and then finally manages to put the rest in the lock again. Then he has his gruel)

[Jailer's office]

LEMAITRE: Good, good. 
JAILER: Thank you, citizen, thank you. My only wish is to serve the cause to the best of my ability. 
LEMAITRE: Nevertheless, loyalty should not go unrewarded. 
JAILER: Citizen, I seek no reward. 
LEMAITRE: That is as it should be, but I shall see to it that your name is mentioned in the right quarter. 
(LeMaitre leaves. The jailer remembers the stuck key and rushes back to the cells to find them. He looks in on Ian, takes the keys and leaves)

[Street]

(The tumbril has stopped unexpectedly) 
BARBARA: Susan, I think the horse has thrown a shoe. The moment they start to unhitch it, we'll make a run for it. 
SUSAN: I don't think I can, Barbara. I don't feel very well. 
BARBARA: Look, I'll help you but you must make an effort. 
SUSAN: All right. I'll do my best. 
BARBARA: Good. Now, as soon as soon as they start to lead the horse away. 
(Women watching from an upper window think the whole thing is very funny. Jules and Jean are nearby) 
JEAN: It is them? 
JULES: Yes. It looks as if they've had soon trouble with the horse. 
JEAN: That is why they were so late. We were right to come looking for them. Are you ready? 
JULES: Yes. 
JEAN: You see how big the guard is, don't you? 
JULES: Yes, four. But one of them's taken the horse away. I think we're in luck. 
JEAN: You know what to do. I'll take the one on the right. 
BARBARA: Susan, are you ready? Come on, now. 
SUSAN: Oh, I can't! You go, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Don't be silly. Come on! Pull yourself together! 
SUSAN: Oh, my head's splitting and my back's aching. 
BARBARA: All right, Susan. It's all right. 
(Jean and Jules shoot one guard, then another. Jules shoots the third in the back then they both help Susan and Barbara down from the tumbril and lead them away)

[Tailor's shop]

(The Doctor enters) 
TAILOR: Good evening, citizen. 
DOCTOR: Good evening. 
TAILOR: I was just about to close my humble shop, but if I can be of service? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, very likely. 
TAILOR: Did you see the executions today, citizen? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh, no, no, I didn't. 
TAILOR: I missed them too. Most unusual. Citizen Robespierre is doing a fine job, don't you think, hounding out the traitors? 
DOCTOR: Yes, splendid fellow. You seem to be very interested in these traitors. 
TAILOR: I consider it my duty. 
DOCTOR: Then perhaps you can confirm that newly arrested prisoners are taken to the, what is it, the Conciergerie Prison? Hmm? 
TAILOR: That is correct, citizen. As a matter of fact, you can see the prison from the end of the street here. 
(The Doctor selects a coat from a rack) 
TAILOR: A wise choice, citizen. There is no finer set of apparel in all of Paris. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I was thinking of something new along these lines. 
TAILOR: Yes, it would certainly be more suitable than what you're wearing at present. 
(notices a sash hanging) 
DOCTOR: That's very impressive. 
TAILOR: Yes, citizen. It signifies the position of regional officer of the provinces. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm quite aware of that. Yes, quite aware. Yes. In fact, it's a post that I myself personally occupy. 
TAILOR: I see. I'm sorry, citizen. 
DOCTOR: Don't apologise. I want to try that on. 
TAILOR: Certainly, citizen. The quality is unmatched, and in comparison, the price 
DOCTOR: The price is of no matter. I haven't any money. 
TAILOR: No money? 
DOCTOR: No. No, I though possibly we could arrange an exchange. 
TAILOR: For this? 
DOCTOR: What's wrong with it? 
TAILOR: Nay, it's little better than a fancy dress outfit. 
DOCTOR: A fancy dress? My dear sir, I doubt that you've seen a coat like it. 
TAILOR: I agree. 
DOCTOR: Am I correct to assume that you're not interested? 
TAILOR: You realise there is not much call for a 
DOCTOR: Have you had a similar coat like this in your shop? 
TAILOR: Never. 
DOCTOR: Then I can understand why there has been no call. 
TAILOR: It is a heavy material, I grant you, and perhaps with a few alterations. You are offering the entire outfit? 
DOCTOR: Exactly. Of course. 
TAILOR: Yes, well, I shall require something else too. Like that ring you're wearing, for example. 
(a brief deathly silence) 
DOCTOR: You may have it, providing you agree to let me have parchment and writing materials into the bargain, hmm? 
TAILOR: Very well. 
DOCTOR: Then we have a bargain, my dear sir.

[Chez Jules]

(a comfortable suburban dwelling) 
SUSAN: Thank you. Oh, I feel better already. 
JEAN: Danielle? 
DANIELLE: Jean. 
JULES: We have closed the rest of the house and sent the servants away. It is safer. 
DANIELLE: I expect you'd like a bath and some food. I'll prepare it for you. Jean, will you help me? 
(Danielle and Jean leave) 
JULES: It is not exactly a palace, but you're both very welcome here. 
BARBARA: What can I say? I can't begin to thank you. 
JULES: Oh, please. I insist you do not even mention it. It is one of my rules. 
BARBARA: All right. I don't even know your name. 
JULES: And that is another of my rules. Christian names only. The less my friends and I know, the less we can admit to when questioned. So permit me. I am Jules. 
BARBARA: Barbara, and this is Susan. 
(Danielle and Jean return with food) 
JULES: This is my sister, Danielle. She's looking after us. This is my young friend, Jean. 
BARBARA: How do you do. 
JULES: I expect you're wondering what is going to happen to you. Well, after you have eaten, you must rest. Then tomorrow we will make arrangements to smuggle you away from France. 
SUSAN: But you can't do that. 
JULES: Why not? 
SUSAN: Barbara. Grandfather. 
BARBARA: Yes, and Ian. He's still in the prison.

[Jail corridor]

IAN [OC]: Jailer? 
(Ian reaches through the bars and unlocks his cell. He is out. Ian relocks his cell and goes carefully up the corridor. He finds the jailer on the floor, injured and with a bottle by his side. Ian makes his escape then LeMaitre comes from his hiding place) 
LEMAITRE: Did Webster give you a message for James Stirling or not? We shall see. We shall see.

[Chez Jules]

(The meal is finished) 
SUSAN: I do feel better after that. 
BARBARA: Here, let me help. 
DANIELLE: No, Barbara. You stay where you are. Jean and I can manage. 
BARBARA: Jules? 
JULES: They can manage. Now, you both agreed to tell me your story. 
SUSAN: Yes, what about the map? 
JULES: Oh, yes. 
(Jules spreads a large map on the table) 
JULES: Here we are. 
SUSAN: Now according to the sun's position, we were travelling south. 
BARBARA: Yes, let's see. Forest should be in this area, here. 
SUSAN: Yes, And there was a group of houses, wasn't there? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
SUSAN: Yes. That would be the forest. 
BARBARA: Yes, turn it round this way. 
SUSAN: Okay. 
BARBARA: Jules, I think we can show you now. We arrived in this area here. 
SUSAN: Yes, we walked through the forest, you see. Then we got lost. So we asked our way at a house and. Where was the house? 
BARBARA: Here it is. 
SUSAN: Ah. 
BARBARA: That's where we saw the soldiers, remember? 
JULES: Are you sure? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
JULES: Jean! 
BARBARA: What's wrong? 
SUSAN: We didn't find Grandfather though. We don't even know if he got away. 
BARBARA: Susan, wait a minute. 
JULES: Show Jean where you were arrested. 
SUSAN: Just here. 
JULES: Did you meet two men there? 
BARBARA: Yes. How did you know? 
JEAN: Their names? 
BARBARA: D'Argenson. 
JULES: And Rouvray. 
JEAN: They must have discovered our escape route, Jules. 
JULES: They may have just been unlucky. We'll wait till we've heard from Leon. The route is his responsibility. Were d'Argenson and Rouvray brought back with you? 
BARBARA: No. There was a fight with the soldiers. They were shot. 
JEAN: Soldiers? Jules, this isn't the first time. 
JULES: Oh, later, later. 
JEAN: Someone's informing on us. 
JULES: Later, Jean. 
SUSAN: You knew those men, didn't you? 
JULES: Hmm? Yes. Yes, we did. We rescued them as we did you. In their case our effort was wasted. 
BARBARA: So this isn't the first time you've risked your life? 
JEAN: Not all Frenchmen can allow innocent people to be led to the guillotine, Barbara. Jules has saved many lives. 
JULES: It would appear that my that luck is running out. 
JEAN: Luck? Not if what I say is true. 
JULES: I shall sort it out, Jean. Now, you say your Grandfather was left here. 
SUSAN: Yes, in that house. 
JULES: Then I shall send someone to search for him as soon as I can. 
BARBARA: There were four of us all together. Ian, as I've already told you, is still in the prison. 
JULES: I promise you, I give you my word, that I will not rest until the four of you have been brought together again. 
BARBARA: Headache again? 
SUSAN: Ah, yes. It keeps coming and going. 
JULES: The young lady needs sleep. Danielle? 
BARBARA: If you could show me where 
JULES: Danielle will escort you. 
DANIELLE: Oh yes, come with me. You look worn out. 
SUSAN: If I could just lie down. 
JULES: Sleep well, and have pleasant dreams. 
SUSAN: Thank you. Goodnight. 
JULES: Goodnight, Susan. 
(The women leave. There's a knock on the door. Jean takes his pistol and opens the door) 
JEAN: Oh, Leon. 
LEON: I'm sorry it's so late, but I have a message for Jules. 
JULES: Leon! It's good to see you. 
JEAN: D'Argenson and Rouvray were taken. 
JULES: Not now, Jean. Well Leon, what's wrong? 
LEON: There is a man. A stranger. He's been asking for you. 
JULES: Oh? 
LEON: He's being watched. He's by the inn near the prison. We thought you should know. 
JULES: Yes, thank you. We'll take care of it. 
JULES: Oh Barbara, this is a good friend of mine, Leon. Barbara. She's here with a young friend. They're staying with us for a few days. 
BARBARA: I'm pleased to meet you. 
(Leon kisses Barbara's hand) 
LEON: Hello. 
JULES: We're slipping out for a while, Barbara. It won't be for long. 
LEON: I'll take good care of her, Jules. 
JULES: Come, Jean. Don't delay. 
(Jean and Jules leave) 
LEON: Perhaps you'd care for some wine? 
BARBARA: Yes. Thank you.

[Jailer's office]

(The jailer's head is bandaged, and he is still drinking) 
DOCTOR [OC]: Let me in, you fools! I could have you shot at dawn. Get it open, will you? 
(the jail door is opened) 
DOCTOR [OC]: Ah, that's better. Thank you. Open again? You don't want all the prisoners to escape, do you? 
(The Doctor is in his new revolutionary costume) 
DOCTOR: Who is in charge of this prison, hmm? Well, speak up, my man! 
JAILER: I am, citizen. 
DOCTOR: My credentials. 
(The Doctor hands over a piece of paper then grabs it back again) 
DOCTOR: And while we are about it, why wasn't I met, hmm? Do you realise that I walked through the whole of Paris without a guard? Me? 
JAILER: We would have arrange an escort had we been advised of your 
DOCTOR: You were advised! I forwarded the communication myself. What if Robespierre hears about this? 
JAILER: Robespierre? Why, I don't think you should worry the first deputy, citizen. He's a very busy man. I am at your service, citizen. Anything you wish to know. 
DOCTOR: Very well. Very well. Thank you. Yes. You seem a capable man and I'm sure this misunderstanding is none of your doing. 
JAILER: Oh, indeed citizen. I am most conscientious, but when you're assisted by idiots. 
DOCTOR: Of course, of course. And I'm glad we understand each other. 
JAILER: Some wine, citizen? 
DOCTOR: No, thank you. 
JAILER: I would deem it a privilege if I could be of help. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, citizen! It's all perfectly simple. Three traitors were brought here. A man, a woman and a young child. They fled from my province. I'm sure you remember them? 
JAILER: Ah, yes. Ah, yes. Er. 
DOCTOR: Well? If they're still here. 
JAILER: The women were dispatched to the guillotine. Unfortunately, there was a rescue. 
DOCTOR: What? By whom? 
JAILER: We don't know! Many times traitors have been snatched away on the road to the guillotine. You understand, of course, that I cannot be held responsible? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
JAILER: They were outside my jurisdiction. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Of course, if course. And the man? You haven't mentioned him. 
JAILER: No. Well, the man, er, well er. 
DOCTOR: Well, come along. Out with it, man. 
JAILER: He escaped, He was a desperate fanatic, citizen. He gave me this wound. I fought with him, prepared to give my life to stop his escape. But he fought with the strength of ten men. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, I believe what you say. I'm sure you did the best you could. It's a pity you're surrounded by such fools. 
JAILER: Exactly, citizen. Exactly. 
DOCTOR: Yes. All three of them are somewhere in Paris. 
JAILER: They will be caught, you may rest assured. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes. What? Oh, of course. Yes, yes, of course, of course. Well, I'll take up no more of your time, citizen. 
(The Doctor turns and sees LeMaitre) 
JAILER: LeMaitre. The citizen here has been enquiring. 
LEMAITRE: Yes, I heard what was said. Your papers, citizen? 
JAILER: He's a regional officer from the southern province. 
LEMAITRE: I can read, thank you, jailer. And where are you going now, citizen? 
DOCTOR: Well, er, home. 
LEMAITRE: It's rather late. It would perhaps be better if you journeyed tomorrow. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, I could do that. 
LEMAITRE: You see, I'm taking the execution lists to the first deputy's palace and, by a coincidence if you like, your province is going to be discussed. It would be a great help if you were on hand to answer any difficult questions that crop up. 
DOCTOR: A great help. Very well. 
LEMAITRE: I promise you will find it most interesting. Come. We must not keep Citizen Robespierre waiting.

[Chez Jules]

LEON: Where do you come from, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Does it matter? 
LEON: No. I'd just like to know. 
BARBARA: I don't think you'll like the answer. I was born in England, so that makes us enemies. 
LEON: Does it? I prefer to think that it means you have no interest in France or the Revolution. 
BARBARA: That's a strange thing to say. 
LEON: Perhaps I'll explain one day. 
BARBARA: Well, I think I'd better go and see if Susan's all right.

[Jailer's office]

JAILER: I keep telling you. He's just left to see Citizen Robespierre. Are you sure it's so urgent? Well, what is it about? 
TAILOR: I want to give him this. 
JAILER: What is it? 
TAILOR: Evidence against a traitor. 
(The Doctor's ring)

Episode Four - The Tyrant of France

[Robespierre's office]

(Robespierre is sitting at his desk)
LEMAITRE [OC]: LeMaitre, to see Citizen Robespierre. 
ROBESPIERRE: Send Citizen LeMaitre in. 
LEMAITRE: Here is the complete and detailed list of the recent executions, Citizen. 
ROBESPIERRE: Who is this, LeMaitre? 
LEMAITRE: A Regional Deputy visiting from our southern province, Citizen. And as the province in question is to be discussed, I thought the Citizen could make his report personally. 
ROBESPIERRE: I see. I am always prepared to listen to a first-hand account of a region's situation. 
DOCTOR: I welcome the opportunity. Thank you. Before you question me, perhaps you would like to hear my views on Paris? 
ROBESPIERRE: When did you arrive? 
DOCTOR: Just today. 
ROBESPIERRE: Hardly long enough for you to have gauged the present mood of our capital. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I wouldn't say that. 
ROBESPIERRE: I am only interested in your comments on your own territory. Recent memoranda from your province suggest that the purge of our enemies in your region is progressing very slowly. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you've reached that conclusion. Hmm. Well, perhaps we have fewer enemies in our region, and it maybe that Paris can take an example from us, hmm? 
ROBESPIERRE: We in Paris are aware of the danger, Citizen. We live in troubled times. There is much, much work to be done, work that is constantly delayed by the need to ferret out the traitors that we harbour in our midst. 
DOCTOR: Is there such a need, Citizen Robespierre? Hmm? I mean, what can this reign of terror possibly gain? For every opponent you put to the guillotine, two more will spring up! 
LEMAITRE: I think you have said enough, Citizen. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you do, do you? 
ROBESPIERRE: Let him speak, LeMaitre. What he said is true. My enemies do multiply. He is only warning me of the dangers I face. 
LEMAITRE: As you wish, Citizen. 
ROBESPIERRE: I could, and I shall, do great things for France. For too long the Nobility have kept our people to heel. And now finally, my world is at power, what happens? My colleagues, my trusted friends, plot for power. 
DOCTOR: Do they? Or is it just their wish to keep their heads, hmm? 
ROBESPIERRE: Danton planned to restore the monarchy. I had the proof, I knew! I had to dispose of him. And the Girondins. Even now, Convention members are at work, plotting my downfall. But I will triumph, even if I have to execute every last one of them! Death, always death. Do you think I want this carnage? Three hundred and forty two executions in nine days in Paris alone. What a memory I shall leave behind if this thing lasts. You must come again, Citizen. We never did talk about your province. 
DOCTOR: No we didn't, did we, and I was so looking forward to it. It's a pity we talked for so long about Paris. 
ROBESPIERRE: Bring him with you tomorrow, LeMaitre. 
LEMAITRE: Yes, Citizen.

[Chez Jules]

(Susan is shivering under a blanket. Danielle brings her a brandy) 
DANIELLE: This will warm you. 
SUSAN: Thank you. What is it? 
DANIELLE: Just drink it all up. 
LEON: Would you like something, Barbara? 
BARBARA: No, thank you. 
LEON: I think I'd like some more wine. 
DANIELLE: The wine is on the table. 
LEON: Thank you, 
DANIELLE: I think I'll return to bed, if you'll excuse me. 
BARBARA: Yes, of course. I'm sorry we disturbed you. 
(Danielle leaves) 
LEON: One can't be friends with everybody. 
BARBARA: How do you feel now? 
SUSAN: I'm all right, thanks. 
BARBARA: That's right. You try and get some rest. I'll be here if you want me. I wish I knew for certain what it was. She could have caught almost anything in that jail. 
LEON: We've done all we can, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Yes, but is it enough? When I went upstairs, she'd kicked off all her clothes and was shivering with cold. I was so worried, I thought I'd better bring her down here. 
LEON: It's probably just a chill. 
BARBARA: Yes, but what if it's worse? 
LEON: Well, we could call a physician, but it would be dangerous. They report almost everything to the militia these days, if only to save their own necks. 
BARBARA: Yes, well, that's a risk we'll have to take. You must know someone we could trust. 
LEON: Yes. Yes, I think I do. 
BARBARA: Good. That's settled then. She's asleep. 
LEON: Good. I wonder what's happened to Jules? He should have been back before this. 
BARBARA: Oh. Well, if you have to go, we'll be all right here. 
LEON: Are you sure? 
BARBARA: Yes, of course. I know you didn't intend to stay so long. 
LEON: I think I'd better go. I shall need time to arrange for the physician. 
BARBARA: We'll see you tomorrow? 
LEON: If I can't come back, I'll send a message. You'll tell Jules? 
BARBARA: Yes. And, be careful, Leon. 
LEON: I will. We'll meet again, Barbara. And soon. 
(Leon leaves and Susan wakes again) 
BARBARA: I thought you were asleep. 
SUSAN: No, just dozing. 
BARBARA: Want to go back to bed now? 
SUSAN: You like Leon, don't you? 
BARBARA: Come on, I'll help you upstairs. 
(Barbara and Susan leave) 
(Later, Jean climbs in through the window, then helps Jules drag a body into the room) 
JULES: Now, let's just have a look at him. It's a pity we had to hit him so hard. 
JEAN: Well, the streets are filled with soldiers. He only had to call out and we'd have been arrested. 
JULES: If he is against us, yes. I wonder who it is? 
(it's Ian)

[Prison]

LEMAITRE: No, far from it. I'd say you created a favourable impression on Citizen Robespierre. 
DOCTOR: I didn't say half the things I wanted to say. He twisted my words. 
LEMAITRE: Politicians usually do. Still, you are going to have another opportunity. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I think not. No, nom no, no. Your hospitality has been most successful, and most accepted. No, I think I must bid you goodbye and leave you. 
LEMAITRE: That would be rather difficult, Citizen. Robespierre is expecting you tomorrow. 
DOCTOR: Then convey my apologies to him. 
LEMAITRE: On the contrary. It would be more than my neck is worth to disobey such an order. You must try and stay. 
DOCTOR: It's out of the question! 
LEMAITRE: Oh, but I insist. Jailer! 
JAILER: LeMaitre. 
LEMAITRE: Arrange suitable accommodation for our Citizen guest. 
JAILER: Of course, Citizen, of course. For how long? 
LEMAITRE: He will be staying at least until tomorrow night. 
DOCTOR: Definitely no longer. 
JAILER: He can have one of the soldiers' rooms. I'll throw them out. Oh, Citizen, just one thing. There's a man waiting to see you. It's very important. 
LEMAITRE: I trust the room will be to your satisfaction. 
DOCTOR: I'm sure it will be.

[LeMaitre's office]

(The tailor is waiting for him) 
LEMAITRE: Well? You wanted to see me? 
TAILOR: Yes, Citizen LeMaitre. I think I may have some information for you. 
[Jailor's office]

JAILER: If you're ready, Citizen, I'll show you your room. 
DOCTOR: Oh, that's alright, Jailer. I don't think I shall stay after all. 
JAILER: Eh? 
DOCTOR: No, I'm sure LeMaitre will understand. It's a pity that I asked him to put me up. Besides, those poor soldiers will need their rest. 
JAILER: It doesn't matter about them. 
DOCTOR: Nevertheless, I must be on my way. I have a long journey. So kindly give my regards to LeMaitre. 
(The Jailor pulls a pistol) 
JAILER: Citizen! 
DOCTOR: And just what do you think you're doing, jailer? Hmm? 
JAILER: LeMaitre said you are staying. I must obey him. 
DOCTOR: And what do you think he'll say when he hears you delayed me, hmm? 
JAILER: I'm sorry, Citizen, I'm sorry. But he comes back and finds you gone, it could be even worse. 
DOCTOR: Very well, I'll stay then. And I shall say nothing of this disgraceful behaviour, if only for your sake. 
JAILER: Thank you, Citizen, thank you. This way.

[LeMaitre's office]

LEMAITRE: Your story is that this white-haired old gentleman exchanged clothes and this ring, and that you also gave him writing material. 
TAILOR: And the sash, Citizen. It was when he took the insignia of a Regional Officer of the Provinces that I became, well, suspicious. 
LEMAITRE: Yes, so you said. 
TAILOR: Of course I realise it may be nothing, but it was my duty to report it. 
LEMAITRE: You did well, Citizen. 
TAILOR: Will you be keeping the ring and the clothes, Citizen? 
LEMAITRE: They may be needed as evidence. 
TAILOR: Oh. Yes. Of course, you realise they were part of the exchange. I'm a poor man, Citizen, and normally I'd have thrown him out of my shop. 
LEMAITRE: This should more than compensate. 
(He gives the tailor a few coins) 
TAILOR: Thank you, Citizen! Although I cannot accept a reward for what, after all, was my duty. 
LEMAITRE: Keep it, on one condition. 
TAILOR: Anything, Citizen. 
LEMAITRE: You will say nothing of this to anyone. 
TAILOR: You have my word. 
LEMAITRE: Leave this way. I don't want you seen in the prison. 
TAILOR: Thank you, Citizen, thank you.

[Chez Jules]

JULES: He's coming round. 
(Barbara enters, but cannot see who is on the chaise) 
JULES: I'm sorry we were so long, Barbara. We had to carry him all the way, dodging patrols all the time. How's Susan? 
BARBARA: Oh, she has a slight fever, but she's sleeping now. 
JULES: Leon not here? 
BARBARA: No, he had to leave. He's arranging for Susan to see a doctor t (sees the newcomer) Ian! 
IAN: Barbara! 
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: Is Susan here too? 
BARBARA: Yes, she's upstairs. 
IAN: But I thought you were both. Oh, this is great. Any news of the Doctor? 
BARBARA: No. We don't even know if he got to Paris. 
JULES: Well, we did not know when we left here we were going to collect one of your friends, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Ian, this is Jules. He saved our lives. 
IAN: Not Jules Renan, by any chance? 
JULES: Yes? 
IAN: What? I've been looking for you. 
JULES: We heard that somebody was. We did not know it was you. 
IAN: You can say that again. 
JULES: We're very sorry about that. Jean, this calls for a celebration. 
JEAN: I'll get a bottle from the cellar. 
JULES: Come and sit over here, you'll be more comfortable. 
BARBARA: I think I'd better go and sit with Susan. 
IAN: Oh? 
BARBARA: She isn't feeling at all well. 
IAN: What's wrong with her? 
BARBARA: Don't know. We're hoping to see a doctor tomorrow. Although when she hears you're back, that should be tonic enough. 
JULES: I know it is good news, but I think it's best not to wake her. 
BARBARA: Oh no, I won't. She doesn't sleep for very long anyway. Look, you have a talk to Ian. 
(Barbara leaves) 
IAN: Sounded like an order. 
JULES: Well, there is one question I would like to ask you. How did you know Barbara and Susan were here? 
IAN: I didn't. 
JULES: But I thought when you were asking for me. 
IAN: That was for an entirely different reason. Do you know a man called Webster? 
JULES: No. 
IAN: I shared a cell with him in prison. Unfortunately he died. He asked me to contact a man called James Stirling. 
JULES: James Stirling. No, I'm afraid that name means nothing to me either. 
IAN: What? You mean to say you don't know him? 
JULES: No. Should I? 
IAN: Well, I don't know. I somehow took it for granted that you would. 
JULES: Perhaps you'd better tell me the complete story. 
IAN: Yes. 
JULES: Over a glass of wine. 
IAN: Well, as far as I know, Webster was an Englishman who'd come over to France to persuade Stirling to return to England. Stirling must be a spy. 
JEAN: I'll share one drink, then I must start my journey. 
JULES: Thank you. Yes, you should leave before dawn. Your health, Ian. 
IAN: Well, as I told you, Webster was dying. But before he died, he begged me to get a message to James Stirling. I asked him, how would I recognise him? And he told me to contact you at the sign of Le Chien Gris. 
JEAN: I see. Well, Webster is right there. It is an inn that we frequent. I'm sorry, please go on. 
IAN: No, that's all there is to say. Except that, as I found Le Chien Gris, you found me. 
JULES: Did Webster know Stirling? 
IAN: Oh, I imagine so. 
JEAN: Probably by sight. 
JULES: But if as you say Stirling is a spy, to do his job properly he must be able to move around freely. That would mean an alias, a completely new identity. 
IAN: What, something that Webster didn't know? 
JULES: Yes, exactly. 
IAN: So Webster was counting on recognising him? 
JULES: Well, that makes good sense. 
IAN: Yes, well why did he ask me to contact you? 
JULES: Men like Webster have been in touch with me before. I imagine the English are giving me as a contact to people they send over in case they need help. 
IAN: That's not going to help me find Stirling, is it? 
JULES: What's the matter, eh? 
JEAN: I'm not sure I like the idea of being used by the English. You shouldn't either, Jules. We're at war! And they're our enemies, and here we are helping their spies. 
JULES: England is at war with the people ruling France, Jean. So are we. When the tyranny ends, so will the war. 
IAN: I suppose the chances of finding Stirling are pretty slim. 
JULES: We can try. 
IAN: Good. 
JEAN: Now, you have a few days to spare, if that's correct. 
IAN: Oh, do I? 
JULES: Oh, I'm sorry, I haven't told you. Jean is leaving soon to search for the fourth member of your party, Susan's grandfather. 
IAN: You know where he is? 
JULES: No, but he will start at the house where you were arrested and follow the trail from there, won't you, Jean? 
JEAN: Yes, I will find him. 
JULES: And while we wait, we will also search, for Stirling. 
JEAN: Providing you have no objections, Jules, I'll start my journey now. 
JULES: No objections. 
JEAN: You'll hear from me within three days. 
JULES: Take care, Jean. 
JEAN: Ian. 
IAN: Good luck, and thanks. 
JULES: If anyone can find him, Jean can. Now to our problem. I wonder who can help us? 
JEAN: Of course, there is one man. 
JULES: Leon? 
IAN: A friend of yours? 
JULES: We've shared many escapades. He moves in a very wide circle and knows a great many people. Perhaps he is James Stirling? 
(Jean leaves) 
IAN: I'd like to meet him. Can you arrange it? 
JULES: Very easily, he's coming here tomorrow, bringing a physician for Susan. 
IAN: Good. This calls for another drink. Oh, Barbara, just in time. 
JULES: Susan? 
BARBARA: I'm afraid she's getting worse.

[Prison]

(Next day, the Doctor comes out of his room. The Jailor is still in a drunken stupor) 
LEMAITRE: Good morning, Citizen. I hope you slept well? 
DOCTOR: I did not! The bed was hard, and the draught blew through the room like the north wind. 
LEMAITRE: I'm sorry. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I dare say you are, but if I catch rheumatism, apologies won't cure it. Will it, hmm? 
JAILER: Better feed the pigs. 
(The Jailer leaves) 
DOCTOR: Most appropriate. 
LEMAITRE: Come, we'll have breakfast. And your time may not be wasted, Citizen. I've got a feeling that it will be quite an eventful day.

{Chez Jules]

DANIELLE: A message from Leon. The physician won't come here. 
JULES: Thank you. 
IAN: But we must do something for Susan. 
JULES: Well, if Danielle says the physician won't come here, Susan must be taken to him, that's all. 
DANIELLE: I'll arrange for a carriage to take them. 
(Danielle leaves) 
IAN: Let me go with Susan. 
JULES: No, I think it'll look less suspicious if two women were to go. Yes, the physician is reasonably near. Yes, Barbara can take her. 
IAN: I've just found them. I don't want to lose them again. 
JULES: That's quite understandable. But there's no reason for you to fear for your safety. Besides, there's your meeting with Leon. 
IAN: Yes, but you haven't arranged it yet. 
JULES: I can. Ian, it'll all be over by today. You'll be able to leave together. It'll be quicker this way. 
IAN: Well, I don't like it this way, but. 
JULES: Good. I'll go and fetch Barbara and Susan. 
IAN: Let's hope we can trust the physician.

[Consulting room]

(An hour later, Susan is being examined by a physician) 
PHYSICIAN: Yes, you appear to have a feverish chill, but it's nothing very serious. 
BARBARA: Well, that's a relief. 
PHYSICIAN: All the same, I'm surprised at your condition. Tell me, have you any idea how you came to catch it? 
SUSAN: No, none. 
PHYSICIAN: Your symptoms would suggest that you haven't been looking after yourself. 
SUSAN: Well, I've done nothing unusual. 
PHYSICIAN: Has she been eating properly? 
BARBARA: She has an enormous appetite. Look, doctor, if you could, well, give her something? We appreciate your time's valuable. We've no wish to delay you. 
PHYSICIAN: Quite so, quite so. There's another thing, your, er, your hands. They're very blistered, aren't they? 
SUSAN: We've been doing some gardening. 
BARBARA: Doctor, can you help her? 
PHYSICIAN: Yes, I'll treat her. It's a simple matter of blood-letting. Unfortunately, I shall have to go out and collect some leeches. You called rather early; I was on my way to collect them first thing this morning. But you're welcome to wait. 
BARBARA: Well, maybe it would be better if we came back. 
PHYSICIAN: Come back? No, no, no. I shall be out all day. You'll have to wait. But please, make yourselves comfortable. 
(the physician leaves) 
SUSAN: Barbara, I don't like him, and I can't stand the thought of having leeches on me. 
BARBARA: I know, and I got the impression that he suspected us. Come on, let's go. 
SUSAN: It's locked!

[Prison]

(the Jailer is mobilising some soldiers to check out the physician's story) 
JAILER: Get a move on. They'll be out of Paris if you don't hurry up! 
PHYSICIAN: If I'm wrong, there'll be no repercussions, will there, Citizen? 
JAILER: Don't worry. From what you've told me, it's the escaped prisoners alright. The soldiers will go with you. All you've got to do is to point them out. 
PHYSICIAN: Yes, yes, I'd better hurry back. 
JAILER: Go with the physician. Right turn. Quick march.

[Consulting room]

BARBARA: Oh, this door's stronger than it looks. 
SUSAN: He's been gone ages. He'll be back soon. There's someone coming. 
PHYSICIAN: There they are. 
(The soldiers take Barbara and Susan away)

{Chez Jules]

IAN: Barbara and Susan aren't back yet. 
JULES: They'll be all right. It is not unusual to be kept waiting at the physician. 
IAN: Well, I've got a feeling something's gone wrong. 
JULES: Now don't worry, Ian. I've arranged your meeting with Leon. 
IAN: Oh, he can wait. 
JULES: If it'll make you any happier, I'll go and fetch Barbara and Susan. Now if you want to see Leon, you must hurry. He moves around a great deal. It may be your only chance. 
IAN: But you'll leave immediately? 
JULES: Yes, of course I will. Leon is at a disused church. You're to go alone. I've explained some of the story. 
IAN: Ah, so he's not James Stirling. 
JULES: No. I'll draw a map for you, It will help you find the way.

[Prison]

JAILER: So, you thought you'd escaped. Well, we're not as big a fools as you take us for. Ah, LeMaitre. Two recaptured prisoners. 
(LeMaitre has a private word with the jailer) 
SUSAN: Barbara, what do you think they're talking about? 
BARBARA: I don't know, but we'll find out soon enough. 
JAILER: I'll see that your orders are carried out, Citizen. Take the girl to the cells. 
SUSAN: No! Barbara! 
JAILER: Not you. You're wanted for questioning.

{LeMaitre's office]

JAILER: Citizen LeMaitre thought you might like to question this prisoner. 
DOCTOR: What's that? 
BARBARA: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara! 
BARBARA: Doctor! 
(LeMaitre is listening outside the door)

[Church crypt]

(Thick Norman pillars offer plenty of hiding places) 
IAN: Leon? 
LEON: Yes. You must be Ian. 
IAN: That's right. 
LEON: Are you alone? 
IAN: Yes. Jules said you might be able to help. 
(Ian hears a noise, turns, and sees) 
IAN: Soldiers. 
LEON: Yes, I know. You walked right into my trap, didn't you, Ian?

Episode Five - A Bargain of Necessity

[Church crypt]

LEON: You can put all ideas of escape out of your head. And as for your rescue? Well, no one will come here, you can take my word for that. 
IAN: If I don't go back, Jules is going to get suspicious. 
LEON: By the time that happens, my friend, we shall have left. And afterwards we'll take care of him. 
(The soldiers chain Ian to iron rings set in a pillar) 
IAN: You never know who your friends are. 
LEON: My association with Jules was bound to come to an end. He already suspected that a traitor, if you want to use those words, was working in the organisation. But it's no matter. We're ready now to close in on him, too. 
IAN: So what do you want with me? 
LEON: Information. You will cooperate, Ian. Think about it. We have plenty of time. 
(Leon leaves) 
SOLDIER: He's giving you time to consider. 
IAN: I don't need time, I have no information. 
SOLDIER: We'll decide that when you talk. And you'll talk. You'll talk.

{LeMaitre's office]

BARBARA: Oh, Doctor, I thought we were never going to see you again. 
DOCTOR: You should know by now, young lady, that you can't get rid of the old Doctor as easily as that.

[Corridor]

(LeMaitre is listening to them through the door) 
BARBARA [OC]: Tell me, how did you get out of that burning farmhouse? 
DOCTOR [OC]: Oh, never mind about that now.

{LeMaitre's office]

DOCTOR: What happened? Where's Susan? How is she? 
BARBARA: She's here. We were arrested together. 
DOCTOR: She's here? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Is she well? 
BARBARA: Yes, she's fine. She had a slight fever, but she's recovered now. 
DOCTOR: Good. Well now, we must find Chesterton and try and get back to the ship. 
BARBARA: Oh, I know where he is. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
BARBARA: I know where he is. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes? 
BARBARA: We were all in hiding at a house owned by a Jules Renan.

[Corridor]

LEMAITRE: Not now, Jailer. 
JAILER: But Citizen. 
LEMAITRE: Later! 
JAILER: But. 
LEMAITRE: I said, not now. 
JAILER: I've just had a message from the First Deputy, Citizen. 
LEMAITRE: Well, what is it? 
JAILER: Robespierre says he wants to see you immediately. It's a matter of the utmost importance. Robespierre said immediately, Citizen. 
LEMAITRE: Yes, yes. Has the young girl been locked away? 
JAILER: She has. I saw to it myself, just as you ordered, Citizen. 
LEMAITRE: Good. She shall remain in her cell, do you understand? Under no circumstances is the door to be opened. 
JAILER: Just as you say, Citizen. 
LEMAITRE: And if that order is disobeyed, I'll have you guillotined. (LeMaitre leaves)

{LeMaitre's office]

DOCTOR: Yes, that's it! That's it! 
BARBARA: Oh, I should never have taken Susan to see that physician. 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't blame yourself, Barbara. As it happens, everything has turned out very well. Might have taken us ages to find each other. 
BARBARA: Do you think we stand a chance of getting out of here? 
DOCTOR: Well, my voice seems to carry some weight, hmm? 
BARBARA: Yes, well, I'm not surprised in that get-up. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's rather impressive, isn't it? Now, listen. I'm going through that door. Give me a few minutes, then I want you to go through the door and straight out of the prison. 
BARBARA: Are you serious? 
DOCTOR: Absolutely serious, but I've no time to explain. Just do as you're asked. 
BARBARA: What about Susan? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'll look after her and follow later. 
BARBARA: But Doctor, you 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, there's no buts. Don't argue. You know my plans always work perfectly. Hmm? In a few minutes, then.

[Jailer's office]

DOCTOR: Ah, tell me. Is LeMaitre here? 
JAILER: He's left to see Citizen Robespierre. 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear, dear. How irritating. And I did want him so urgently. 
JAILER: Well, I'm sure he'll be back shortly, Citizen. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, this matter can't wait. It's urgent. I've just been interrogating that young woman, and I'm convinced she's a member of that dangerous Traitor's Party. 
JAILER: Oh, I see, I see. 
DOCTOR: And do you know, she could tell us the names of every traitor in this country. 
JAILER: Perhaps we should make her talk? 
DOCTOR: No, no, chance of that. No, she'd rather die first than betray her friends. No, I think, if there's only some way of using her. If only we could get through her to her friends. 
JAILER: Perhaps. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
JAILER: Perhaps. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps what? 
JAILER: Well, if she were to escape, she could be followed. She'd meet these traitors, then we'd arrest them. LeMaitre once did this. 
DOCTOR: My dear, what an excellent idea! What an excellent idea! Yes, of course, now why didn't I think of that? Yes, that's what we'll do, and LeMaitre will be delighted! Now look here, Mister Jailer, I want you to open those prison doors. Keep out of sight. 
JAILER: Oh, but, er 
DOCTOR: Tch, tch, tch. No buts, no! And sooner or later, that young woman will come through those doors and we can grab her. Go along, quickly. 
(Barbara comes out of the office, sees everything is clear, and walks out of the prison)

{Chez Jules]

JULES: Ian, Barbara, Susan? Ian? Ian?

[Church crypt]

SOLDIER: Getting impatient, are we? That's a good sign. Citizen Colbert really knows how to make pigs like you talk. He leaves them alone, lets them think. Now me, I have other ways. 
LEON: Stop that. I'm sorry. I'm afraid my men are very bad-tempered. Ian, I don't want anything to happen to you really, but I think you have the information that will help the cause I believe in. 
IAN: You're wasting your time with me. I'm very small fry. 
LEON: Surely you don't expect me to believe that? We learned of the existence of James Stirling two months ago. We've been searching for him ever since. 
IAN: We? 
LEON: Yes. I've been loyal to the Revolution from the beginning. If you'd known what France was like six years ago, before the Bastille, you'd understand. 
IAN: I do understand, but I can't help you. 
LEON: Or you won't. France will never be anything until we're rid of these high-born leeches who've been sucking the life-blood of France for so long. 
IAN: You must believe me, I can help you in no way. 
LEON: Ian. You can save yourself a lot of trouble and suffering by talking. This is your only chance! Do you realise that when I've finished with you I'll transfer you to the prison, and then to the guillotine? Now, if you were to talk, I have the power to set you free. 
IAN: Jules must have told you all I know. 
LEON: Ah yes, what did Jules say? That Webster gave you a message to give to Stirling. 
IAN: Yes, that's right. Only I can't recognise Stirling. That's why I'm here. 
LEON: Oh, that I accept. But you must have known of their organisation. You were in it with Webster. He would never have trusted you otherwise. Now, who sent you from England? How did you get here, and who helped you? 
IAN: What's the use? 
LEON: I really don't understand what you hope to gain. If I don't get the information from you, I shall find it elsewhere. Now be sensible. Save yourself from the guillotine. 
IAN: You wouldn't believe my story anyway. 
LEON: Suppose you let me be the judge of that. How did you get to France? 
IAN: You really want to know, eh? 
LEON: The truth? 
IAN: Oh yes, it's the truth all right. 
LEON: You swear it? 
IAN: Yes, I swear it. I flew here with three friends in a small box. When I left England it was 1963. 
(Leon signals a soldier to bayonet Ian, but just then) 
JULES: All right, Leon. Release him. 
(Jules shoots one soldier, then throws the empty pistol at Leon, knocking him down. Ian kicks the second musket away before the soldier can fire, and Jules is able to grab the soldier. Ian sees Leon get up with two pistols of his own) 
IAN: Jules! 
(Jules turns with the solder as a shield, and both Leon's shots hit the solder instead. As Jules makes for the musket, Jules draws his second pistol) 
JULES: You traitor. It's you who's the enemy of the people. 
(Jules kills Leon Colbert and frees Ian) 
IAN: I thought I was going mad when I saw you here. Why did you come? 
JULES: Bad news for you. 
IAN: Oh? 
JULES: Barbara and Susan were arrested at the physician. 
IAN: Yes, I feared that as soon as Leon turned up here. We must get to them. 
JULES: I think it's best to go back to my hide-out. 
IAN: What? The soldiers will be there already. 
JULES: Well, if I know Leon, he will have wanted the satisfaction of arresting me himself. And anyway, we'll just have to risk it. Come on.

[Susan's cell]

(there's a tapping at the door) 
SUSAN: What is it? What do you want? 
DOCTOR: Susan, Susan, it's me, child! Me! 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather! Oh, Grandfather, you've found us! Well, how'd you get away from the farmhouse? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I can't explain that now, child, it'd take too long. 
SUSAN: Oh, Barbara's here somewhere. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I've taken care of that. She should be out of the prison and well on her way now. And I. Shh! There's someone coming! Quiet! See you later. Shh! SUSAN: Be careful! 
DOCTOR: Shh!

[Jailer's office]

JAILER: But Citizen! 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
JAILER: Didn't you collect the soldiers and follow the released prisoner? 
DOCTOR: Me? Certainly not! 
JAILER: But, whatever, why not? 
DOCTOR: But I was under the impression, my dear man, that you were doing so. I'm hardly dressed in the proper clothes to go skulking after people, now am I? 
JAILER: I couldn't have gone. I can't leave the prison. 
DOCTOR: Well why didn't you say that in the first place? Well, did you? 
JAILER: No, Citizen. 
DOCTOR: No, and what do you think LeMaitre will say? He's bound to want to know whose idea it was. 
JAILER: It was mine. Citizen, you must help me. 
DOCTOR: I'll try. Now, don't worry, I'll cover up for you. But you know, I have a feeling that this young girl is tied up in this somehow. Now I think if we let her go, I personally could follow, and then arrest all of them. All I need from you is the key to that child's cell. 
JAILER: Citizen, LeMaitre was very clear with his instructions. If that door is opened, I lose my head. That's what, what LeMaitre said just before he left, that's what he said. 
DOCTOR: LeMaitre, LeMaitre. Why can't you use your own initiative, my man? 
JAILER: Aye, well you must see him when he returns, Citizen. I'm just a humble servant. If his orders are countermanded, well then. 
DOCTOR: I demand you open that cell door! 
JAILER: To lose one prisoner is bad enough, to lose two would be the end of me. Especially after my orders. LeMaitre will be returning soon. We'll do as he says. Until then, that door remains closed.

[Robespierre's office]

ROBESPIERRE: Ah good, LeMaitre. We are not to be disturbed. The news is serious, Citizen, and there is not much time. 
LEMAITRE: I am at your service. You have only to give the order. 
ROBESPIERRE: There is a meeting of the Convention tomorrow. 
LEMAITRE: Yes, I know, Citizen. 
ROBESPIERRE: I have been warned that certain influential Members, traitors, all of them, are planning to bring an indictment against another Member. 
LEMAITRE: You have their names? 
ROBESPIERRE: Oh, I realise they are forever plotting, but this latest information suggests that more and more of the Paris Commune are taking sides. The plan is that even I shall not be allowed to speak. They're out to destroy me. 
LEMAITRE: All is not lost, Citizen. You still have many friends sitting in the Convention. 
ROBESPIERRE: But can I trust them? If this motion gets underway, they will turn against me to save their own necks. Mark my words, LeMaitre. If this plot is successful, tomorrow, the 27th of July 1794, will be a date for history. 
LEMAITRE: Tell me the leader of this group, Citizen. He will be immediately executed. 
ROBESPIERRE: Patience, LeMaitre. This is no lone voice we are fighting against. If they are to hold power, they will need the Army on their side. Meetings must have been arranged. 
LEMAITRE: By whom? 
ROBESPIERRE: It is my guess that Deputy Paul Barrass is at the forefront of the rebels, but I must be certain before I strike. I shall not get a second chance, LeMaitre. 
LEMAITRE: Tell me what I must do. 
ROBESPIERRE: I understand that Barrass is leaving Paris tonight. I assume it must be for a meeting. With the position as it is, it can be for no other reason. I want to know who with, and the decision. Given that, I can still defeat my enemies. 
LEMAITRE: What if he's just a decoy? 
ROBESPIERRE: That is my worry, LeMaitre. Tonight my men will be everywhere. Barrass is your responsibility. 
LEMAITRE: I shall not fail you. Against which Member is the indictment being brought, Citizen? 
ROBESPIERRE: Against me, LeMaitre! Against me, Robespierre! 
(outside, LeMaitre has a whispered conversation with a guard)

{Chez Jules]

JULES: Leon was right. He did not tell me about this place. We're safe here for the moment. But I shall have to give up this house very soon. It's becoming too dangerous. 
IAN: Barbara! We thought you'd been arrested. 
BARBARA: Yes, we were, but when we got to the prison, the Doctor was there. 
IAN: What? 
BARBARA: Yes, he's dressed up as if he was running the revolution! From what I could gather, half the people there take orders from him. 
IAN: That sounds like the Doctor, all right. 
JULES: The Doctor? You mean Susan's grandfather? 
BARBARA: Yes, that's right. 
IAN: And where's Susan? 
BARBARA: Oh, she'll be along later with him. I just walked out. 
IAN: Walked out? But. I don't know how he gets away with it half the time. What did he say? 
BARBARA: Well, not very much, we didn't have a chance. But he'll be here soon, so no doubt we'll get the whole story, several times. What have you done? 
IAN: Oh, it's nothing much. Let's just say I fell into the wrong hands, and Jules arrived in time. 
BARBARA: And Leon? 
JULES: He's dead, Barbara. I killed him. 
BARBARA: Killed him? 
JULES: Yes. He was the traitor we were looking for. 
IAN: It was the only way, Barbara. 
JULES: He deserved to die. He was a traitor. 
BARBARA: What do you mean, he was a traitor? 
IAN: When I got to the church, he turned on me. He was going to kill me. 
JULES: He betrayed us, Barbara. 
BARBARA: He was a traitor to you. To his side he was a patriot. 
IAN: Barbara, we've taken sides just by being here. Jules actually shot him. It could just as easily have been me. 
JULES: And what about Robespierre? I suppose you think 
BARBARA: Well just because an extremist like Robespierre 
IAN: Oh, Barbara, Jules is our friend. He saved our lives! 
BARBARA: I know all that! The revolution isn't all bad, and neither are the people who support it. It changed things for the whole world, and good, honest people gave their lives for that change. 
IAN: Well, he got what he deserved. 
BARBARA: You check your history books, Ian, before you decide what people deserve.

[Susan's cell]

DOCTOR: Susan. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather! I thought you were never coming. 
DOCTOR: I shall have you out of here soon, but I must have your help. Now look, I want you to get down onto the floor, behind this door, and don't move, whatever you do! 
SUSAN: Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Do it now, child. Don't argue, do it now. And don't make a sound! Stay there! There's someone coming. 
SUSAN: Be careful! 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, don't fuss. 
(The Doctor checks that there is no one else around)

[Jailer's office]

JAILER: Oh, it'll be the end of me, this business. I don't know what LeMaitre will say. 
DOCTOR: Oh, he's not back yet then, eh? 
JAILER: Oh, but we expect him any minute, and then 
DOCTOR: Hmm. Jailer! Jailer! That young girl, she's gone! 
JAILER: What? 
DOCTOR: She's gone!

[Corridor outside Susan's cell]

JAILER: She's gone! 
(as he fumbles for his keys the Doctor knocks him out with his own bottle and frees Susan) 
DOCTOR: Come along, child, quickly! 
(but they run straight into LeMaitre) 
LEMAITRE: Guards! Guards! 
(they are surrounded by soldiers) 
JAILER: He tricked me, Citizen. He tricked me! 
LEMAITRE: Lock her away. 
JAILER: He did as you said 'e would, Citizen. He tried to get the young girl released, and he let the other prisoner go. 
DOCTOR: Oh, spare your breath, please! I'm quite capable of explaining the situation myself. 
LEMAITRE: All right, Jailer. I think it's about time we had a talk. 
(Susan is taken back to her cell)

{LeMaitre's office]

DOCTOR: I must insist that you release that young child immediately! 
LEMAITRE: I'm afraid you're not in a position to insist on anything at the moment. 
DOCTOR: Position, sir? Do you realise who you're talking to? 
LEMAITRE: Not yet. But I intend to find out. Do you recognise this, Citizen? 
(It's the Doctor's signet ring) 
DOCTOR: No. Should I? 
(LeMaitre produces the Doctor's original clothes.) 
LEMAITRE: And these. They're yours, aren't they? Given in exchange for those rather splendid clothes and the insignia of a Regional Provincial Deputy. 
DOCTOR: Do you know that's the biggest fairy story I've ever heard in my life. 
LEMAITRE: I could have had you arrested any time I wanted! 
DOCTOR: Yes. Why didn't you? (puts the ring on his finger) 
LEMAITRE: Please, please, keep it. Why didn't I? Well, with the political situation as it is, and my position being what it is, I need friends even if they're enemies. People I can call on for help. If I have something on them, so much the better. 
DOCTOR: It's become quite obvious to me why you didn't wish me to leave the prison. 
LEMAITRE: I knew I'd never see you again if you did. 
DOCTOR: But you relaxed the regulations today, and I could have walked out any time I wished. 
LEMAITRE: And left your granddaughter? Just an assumption, but obviously correct. I knew I had you so long as she remained here under lock and key. If you remember, when I first met you, you were enquiring after your friends. The young woman, whom the jailer says you've just released, the girl and, what was his name? Ian. 
DOCTOR: So you knew all the time? 
LEMAITRE: Let's just say I added to my knowledge. Listening at doors can still be effective. 
DOCTOR: What do you want? 
LEMAITRE: Ah. So I see we understand each other. If you agree to help me, your granddaughter will be released after you have kept your side of the bargain. 
DOCTOR: The least I can do is listen. 
LEMAITRE: Good. Now, I'm reasonably certain that your group are working with, or for, Jules Renan. I think you used his hideout. Certainly you know where it is, and if you don't, your granddaughter does. 
DOCTOR: I have never met the man! Oh, I fully appreciate why you must want to find him, but if you think that I am going to betray him, then you are a very poor judge of character. 
LEMAITRE: If you want your granddaughter released, you will have to take me to his hideout. 
DOCTOR: Never, sir, I refuse! 
LEMAITRE: I repeat. if you want your granddaughter released, you do not have a choice!

{Chez Jules]

BARBARA: Where's Jules? 
IAN: He went to the end of the street, to look for Susan and the Doctor. 
BARBARA: Well, the Doctor would have to wait for the right moment. 
IAN: Yes, but how long can we wait? 
BARBARA: Oh, I don't know. Whenever somebody passes the house, I think it might be them. 
IAN: Yes, I know. Barbara. Sorry about Leon, but it really was the only way, believe me. 
BARBARA: I know. I wanted to apologise to Jules. I'm so sick and tired of death, Ian. We never seem able to get away from it. 
JULES: There is no way, Barbara. Well, there's no sign of your friends. 
BARBARA: Well, we must wait a little longer. 
JULES: I left the door unlatched. 
IAN: Oh, so now anyone can walk in. 
JULES: Try and be patient, Ian. Oh, I know these long hours of waiting only too well. I've had my share. 
BARBARA: Jules, when I spoke to you before, I. The things I said. 
JULES: You said because of Leon the man. Yes, I know. But I did what I had to do because of what he represents. Do you ever wonder why I'm doing these things, hiding in shadows, fighting in corners? 
IAN: We took it for granted you belonged to the other side, the aristocracy. 
JULES: No. No, I have no title or position. I belong, well, in the middle. But I hate to see order thrown out of the window like so much dust. There can be no loyalty or honour where anarchy prevails. 
BARBARA: And Leon was your friend. 
JULES: There are only two sides today, Barbara. Those who rule by fear and treachery, and those who fight for reason and justice. Anyone who betrays these principles is worse than the devil in hell! 
IAN: Here they are. 
(The Doctor enters, followed by) 
BARBARA: LeMaitre. 
JULES: Your friend has betrayed us!

Episode Six - Prisoners of the Conciergerie

[Chez Jules]

IAN: You brought the soldiers! 
LEMAITRE: No, I came alone and unarmed. Ask your friend. 
DOCTOR: We came alone, my boy. We made a bargain. Let him speak. He holds Susan prisoner. 
JULES: What can you have to say to us? 
LEMAITRE: Please, I come as a friend. 
BARBARA: A friend? 
LEMAITRE: Ian will tell you that what I say is true. 
IAN: I will? 
LEMAITRE: Well, surely you realise that your escape from prison was arranged? I saw to it that you got the key and I took care of the jailer. 
IAN: Why? Why should you do that? 
LEMAITRE: I was certain in my own mind that Webster gave you a message to deliver. You had to have the opportunity to deliver it. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to wait now. I have to collect. 
BARBARA: Collect? 
LEMAITRE: Yes. I am James Stirling. 
IAN: Stirling? You? 
STIRLING: Is it so surprising? You must have already decided that to be of any use I would have to hold some position of authority. 
JULES: Why have you not made yourself known here before? Webster had been told about me. 
STIRLING: I've been in France several years. When I came over you must have been unknown to us, although I'm not sure I would have contacted you even if I could. I prefer to work alone. 
IAN: You could have made yourself known to me in prison. 
STIRLING: Yes, but I didn't know whether I could trust you. There again, I could have been overheard. No, Ian, I took the only course possible. 
DOCTOR: That's all very well, LeMaitre, Stirling, or whatever your name is, but the only reason I brought you here was to help Susan. And I've kept my part of the bargain. 
STIRLING: I know, but let me explain my position. 
DOCTOR: I certainly will not! I want my granddaughter out of that prison! 
STIRLING: She already has been out of that prison and she was rearrested. I will help you if you will help me. Don't you see? I can use my authority to get safe passage for all of you to wherever you want to go. 
DOCTOR: But look here. 
IAN: He's right, Doctor. 
STIRLING: No harm will come to Susan, I promise. I gave orders that she was to remain in the cell. Now you know that's true. The jailer would die rather than see that cell door opened again. 
DOCTOR: Very well. Very well. If you must, tell your story then get on with it. 
STIRLING: First, the message. 
IAN: Oh, Webster said very little. He was badly wounded as you know. 
STIRLING: Yes. I know that. I read reports of all arrests in case something like this happens. It's why I came to your cell, I realised that he could have been Webster. I've been expecting to be contacted for months. 
IAN: He didn't know where you were, or even where I could find you. 
STIRLING: No. The plan was that he was to look for and recognise me. He was a good friend. Ian, the message? 
IAN: He said you were to return to England immediately. It seems that whatever information you have is wanted there urgently. 
STIRLING: Nothing more? 
IAN: That was all Webster said. 
STIRLING: Are you sure? 
IAN: Well, he mumbled occasionally. Odd words. But what I've just told you was all he asked me to tell you. 
STIRLING: What were these mumblings about? 
IAN: Oh, well, they didn't really make sense. He was unconscious. He said strange things. I can't really remember now. 
STIRLING: He may have realised that he didn't have very much time. 
IAN: Yes. I'm afraid I can't remember them. 
STIRLING: Well, I'm already planning my return to England, but before I go, and before I can give Susan and you safe passage, there is one more piece of information I must have. 
BARBARA: But you asked for our help. What can we do? You have all the power. 
STIRLING: Robespierre sent for me today. There is another plot to depose him. 
JULES: Good. Will it succeed, do you think? 
STIRLING: Possibly. He gave orders that I should follow Paul Barrass, a deputy, and report back on a meeting. 
IAN: Barrass. Meeting. Webster did speak of that. 
STIRLING: What did he say? 
IAN: Well, nothing specific but he said Barrass, meeting, and something about a sinking ship. No. No, The Sinking Ship. That was it! 
JULES: Just a moment. There's an inn called the Sinking Ship on the Calais Road. It would be ideal for a secret meeting. 
STIRLING: Right. Better than following him, we can plan a reception committee. If I can discover the results of this meeting, I'm ready to return to England and I'm free to help you. 
BARBARA: Have you any idea who Barrass is meeting? 
STIRLING: No, but whoever he is, he could be the next ruler of France. 
IAN: I still don't understand why you need our help. 
STIRLING: Barrass knows me by sight, I'm sure of that. He could even know of you, Doctor. Now my plan, if you agree, is for Barbara and Ian to attend the meeting. 
DOCTOR: Nonsense! It's far too risky. 
JULES: Why not use your own men? You would still learn the details. 
STIRLING: True but then they would also know and they may talk. Then I have no advantage. 
BARBARA: I think we should go. Ian? 
IAN: It's risky, but we're not going to get away without help. 
DOCTOR: Quite so, and there's Susan to think about. 
STIRLING: Then you agree to go? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: We agree. 
STIRLING: The Doctor and I will remain here. If we're seen it could hinder you, or worse. 
JULES: I'll take them to the inn, Stirling, if you've no objection. 
STIRLING: Good. I was going to ask you to. Now, when you get there I suggest that the innkeeper. 
JULES: You can leave it to us, Stirling. 
STIRLING: Sorry. I know I can. You should have little difficulty getting there tonight. Stay the night and return here tomorrow morning. That way you won't run into any patrols. Now, where exactly is this inn, Jules? 
JULES: It's a good two hours ride. We'll take the Calais road and ride due north. When we reach this fork we'll see a forest. We'll circle it and ride west.

[The Sinking Ship - bar]

(The full moon disappears behind storm clouds. Barbara is masquerading as a waitress as Jules sits near the door JULES: Thank you. 
BARBARA: Well, if this is a typical night's trade, I'm not surprised this place was chosen. 
JULES: I've bound and gagged the innkeeper and left him in the wine cellar. He'll be found when we leave. 
BARBARA: Ian's nearly finished. 
JULES: Good. 
BARBARA: You know, if Barrass doesn't arrive soon, he'll find the place closed. 
JULES: Perhaps that's what he's waiting for. 
(Barbara notices a wine bottle being rattled by an awl sticking through the wall. She moves the bottle then goes to the next room)

[The Sinking Ship - back room]

BARBARA: You're through. 
IAN: Yes, I know. That'll do it. Many out there? 
BARBARA: Just two. They look set for the night. Oh, and Jules of course. He's put the innkeeper in the cellar. 
IAN: Good. Yes, looks all right. Aye. Now we're ready for them. 
(Spy hole complete, Ian arranges items on the shelf to disguise it)

[The Sinking Ship - bar]

(Jules signals with his pipe that Barrass is entering) 
IAN: Ah, let me take your cloak, Citizen. Horrible night. 
BARRASS: Where is Jacques? 
IAN: Ah, Jacques? Oh, he's sick. He asked me to help him out. You must be the citizen who ordered the room. This way. This way, citizen. Here we are.

[The Sinking Ship - back room]

BARBARA: Can I get you anything, Citizen? 
BARRASS: Yes. Some wine. 
BARBARA: How many guests are you expecting? 
BARRASS: Just the one. 
(Barbara leaves)

[The Sinking Ship - bar]

BARBARA: There'll only be two of them. 
(Barbara takes a bottle and two glasses into the back. The other bar patrons leave) 
IAN: Goodnight! 
CITIZEN: Goodnight! 
(Jules goes out to stop any more unwanted customers) 
IAN: As soon as his guest comes you can lock up. 
(a coach draws up and a man in uniform goes straight through to the back room) 
BARBARA: Did you see who it was? 
IAN: No. Did you? 
BARBARA: No.

[The Sinking Ship - back room]

BARRASS: Well, I'm delighted you could get here, General. 
(the General checks no one is eavesdropping on them)

[The Sinking Ship - bar]

IAN: Barbara. Barbara. It's Napoleon. Napoleon Bonaparte!

[The Sinking Ship - back room]

BARRASS: We're quite safe here. I made certain I wasn't followed. 
NAPOLEON: The meeting place was well chosen. 
BARRASS: I, er, assume from your presence here that you're interested in my proposition. 
NAPOLEON: Interested, obviously. But, no more. At least, not until you disclose the full details. 
BARRASS: Robespierre will be arrested after tomorrow's convention meeting. 
NAPOLEON: Will be? It won't be the first attempt. 
BARRASS: But it will be the successful one. He'll be tried and executed before his friends have time to reorganise. 
NAPOLEON: You make it sound simple, Barrass. I think you underestimate Robespierre. He has a talent for commanding support. 
BARRASS: Only if he is allowed to speak. And he won't be able to. 
NAPOLEON: As far as I'm concerned, your success or failure means very little to me. 
BARRASS: Oh, possibly, but only for the immediate future. Success could well mean that I would take control of the governing committee. 
NAPOLEON: It would be within the constitutional rights? 
BARRASS: And then the constitution could be amended. Oh, I'm well aware of your disgust for politicians, tearing France to pieces while her enemies wait to pounce. 
NAPOLEON: Exactly what is your proposal? 
BARRASS: I believe that to rule a country successfully, one needs a certain support from the people being governed. 
NAPOLEON: Agreed. And how do you plan to raise that support? 
BARRASS: With you. Your victories, inspiring victories, in the Austrian Wars have made you a public figure. You're a hero in the people's eyes. 
NAPOLEON: And in your eyes? A useful prop for your new government. 
BARRASS: Oh, come, general. You would be more than just a figurehead. 
NAPOLEON: Yes, I know I would. I'm glad you appreciate it. In which capacity would you require me to serve? 
(Ian and Barbara are listening through the spy hole Ian made earlier) 
BARRAS: The constitution amendment would call for a government of three consuls. You would be one of them. 
NAPOLEON: When would you require my decision? 
BARRASS: Now. 
NAPOLEON: If I refuse? 
BARRASS: You're in a strong position, Bonaparte, but hardly indispensible. There are other young men equally ambitious. 
NAPOLEON: I accept, dependent on Robespierre's downfall. In the event of failure, I shall of course deny this meeting ever took place. 
BARRASS: I will summon you to Paris as soon as a suitable time has elapsed. 
NAPOLEON: I shall be ready to take over.

[Chez Jules]

(Next morning, Ian and Barbara report their findings) 
STIRLING: Napoleon? Napoleon as ruler of France? 
BARBARA: Yes. As one of three consuls. 
STIRLING: He won't be content with that. I've watched his promotions. Bonaparte's clever and ambitious. If he gets a foothold to power, one day he will rule France. 
DOCTOR: Our only concern now is Susan. 
STIRLING: She's only part of it, Doctor. If they take Robespierre to the prison we might find it hard to get in there, let alone get out. 
IAN: You made a bargain with us. 
STIRLING: And I'll keep to it. 
IAN: You knew this might happen. 
STIRLING: Yes. But I had no idea Barrass was so strong. Jules. What time is this convention meeting? 
JULES: It will be over by now. 
STIRLING: Then Robespierre could already be under arrest. I must find out. There may still be time. 
BARBARA: You'd keep Robespierre as ruler of France? 
STIRLING: If I thought it was the only way to 
JULES: We need a strong government, but not a military dictatorship. And it could happen. 
BARBARA: It will happen. 
DOCTOR: Oh, save your breath, my dear. Do as you think fit. I'm going off for Susan. 
STIRLING: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
STIRLING: Take Barbara with you. Let her hide outside the prison. Jules? 
JULES: Yes? 
STIRLING: Get a carriage. Take her to the prison. If there are crowds, wait until they disperse. Barbara will watch out for you. 
JULES: Right. 
STIRLING: If you can get Susan, take her and join Barbara and wait for the carriage. Ian and myself will join you as soon as we can. 
IAN: Where shall we go? 
STIRLING: To the palace. We'll get news of Robespierre. If you're not outside the prison when we return, I'll come for you. 
DOCTOR: Go with him, my boy. You can't help me but at least you can make sure that he helps us. 
IAN: All right. I'll see you outside the prison. Good luck. 
BARBARA: Take care, Ian. 
DOCTOR: What is it? What do you find so amusing, hmm? 
BARBARA: Oh, I don't know. Yes, I do. It's this feverish activity to try and stop something that we know is going to happen. Robespierre will be guillotined whatever we do. 
DOCTOR: I've told you of our position so often. 
BARBARA: Yes, I know. You can't influence or change history. I learnt that lesson with the Aztecs. 
DOCTOR: The events will happen, just as they are written. I'm afraid so and we can't stem the tide. But at least we can stop being carried away with the flood! Now, Susan and the prison.

[Robespierre's office]

(Robespierre gets a pistol from his desk and bolts the doors. Outside, a group of soldiers are after his blood. They break the door down) 
SOLDIER: A warrant for your arrest, Citizen. Issued by the governing committee. 
ROBESPIERRE: Oh, don't be fools, citizens! They're traitors, all of them. Traitors! Don't be fools, they're just using you. They'll never succeed in taking over the government of France! They'll never succeed! Within hours I shall be as powerful as ever I was and the traitors will pay with their lives!

[Outside Robespierre's office]

(Ian and Stirling arrive) 
ROBESPIERRE [OC]: If, citizens, you swear your allegiance to me now, I will promise your safety. I promise to save France. I will promise! (a gunshot silences the rhetoric) 
SOLDIER [OC]: Ha! That'll keep you quiet for a while. No more talk out of him. Come on, Citizen, to the prison. 
(Robespierre is dragged out, bleeding) 
STIRLING: You should have let me go in, Ian. 
IAN: No, Stirling. Robespierre's finished. We were too late. 
STIRLING: Yes. Did you hear the men? They're taking him to the prison. 
IAN: Yes. It's up to the Doctor now.

[Opposite the Prison]

(The Doctor and Barbara are sheltering from the rain) 
DOCTOR: I think we're going to have quite a storm. 
BARBARA: Yes. We were lucky to find shelter so near the prison. 
DOCTOR: Hmm. We've waited around here long enough. It's far too conspicuous. I think the carriage might be here when I return. Will you be all right? 
BARBARA: Yes, of course. 
DOCTOR: I think I'll go and get Susan, or at least try. Be careful.

[Jailer's office]

(the jailer is drinking with several guards) 
JAILER: Up with the Revolution. You! You came back. 
DOCTOR: I can see you did not expect me. 
JAILER: No, but I am glad you came. I still have a score to settle with you. 
DOCTOR: Really? I see you haven't heard the news yet, my man. 
JAILER: Who hasn't? Robespierre has been overthrown! 
DOCTOR: Yes. And LeMaitre was shot trying to run away. 
JAILER: LeMaitre, shot? 
DOCTOR: Shot. And now we're going to deal with his accomplices. 
JAILER: Who are you? 
DOCTOR: Why do you think a high-ranking official like myself came to Paris, hmm? I was part of the plan. I came to make sure of Robespierre's downfall. 
JAILER: I didn't know, Citizen. 
DOCTOR: No, you didn't, did you? And that is why you didn't expect me to come back. You thought you'll get away with it. 
JAILER: Get away with what? 
DOCTOR: Being LeMaitre's accomplice. Take him! You were LeMaitre's accomplice, weren't you? You did help him to carry out his torturous actions? 
JAILER: I only carried out the orders I was given, Citizen. 
DOCTOR: Orders? Orders? Don't tell me that, my man, I was there, remember? I saw you conniving with him all the time. 
JAILER: I didn't, Citizen. 
DOCTOR: Didn't what? 
JAILER: Do what you just said. 
DOCTOR: It was you that betrayed me to LeMaitre, was it not? 
JAILER: Well, after all, Citizen, you did hit me on the head. And how was I to know LeMaitre was a traitor? And, well, you, Citizen, you, well, that was a secret wasn't it? 
DOCTOR: Well, I suppose there's some logic in that. I can't decide whether you're a rogue or a half-wit or both. Ha. However, I will give you the benefit of the doubt. (to the guards) Get out. Now, while we're reconsidering the post of jailer you may stay here in a temporary capacity. 
JAILER: Thank you, Citizen. You won't regret it, I promise you. 
DOCTOR: I hope not. Now, Robespierre's friends smuggled him away after the convention. The soldiers are after him. He will be caught and probably brought here. 
JAILER: Ah, well we'll look after him, Citizen. Never fear. 
DOCTOR: Tomorrow there will be a new bunch of prisoners, Robespierre's friends, so I hope everything will be ready, including the cells? 
JAILER: Well, shall I release the prisoners, Citizen? 
DOCTOR: Certainly. Now let me have the key to the dungeon.

[Opposite the Prison]

(Barbara sees soldiers arrive at the prison gates) 
SOLDIER: Open up! We've got Robespierre! 
IAN: The Doctor back yet? 
BARBARA: No. But they've got Robespierre! I've just seen them take him into the prison. 
STIRLING: Yes, we followed them here. Perhaps I'd better go and see what's happened. 
IAN: You stay where you are, Stirling. You set one foot inside that prison and you'll be arrested. We must wait until Jules arrives with the carriage. 
BARBARA: And you obviously didn't get to Robespierre. 
IAN: No. 
STIRLING: We saw him taken. He was shot in the jaw. 
IAN: Jules going to be able to see us from here? 
BARBARA: I think so. At least this storm will allow him to pull up in front of the prison. 
STIRLING: I shall be heading for Calais. I can get a boat from there. 
IAN: Good. We can save you some time. We go the same way. 
STIRLING: While we're waiting, you might as well explain exactly where it is you're making for. 
BARBARA: Well, as far as I can remember from the map I saw in the hideout, we head north of Paris. 
IAN: Here's Jules!

[Prison corridor]

(The Doctor lets Susan out of the cell) 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather! 
DOCTOR: Ah. There, Susan. We're all going back to the ship. It's all over for you. 
SUSAN: Where are the others? 
DOCTOR: Well, Barbara's outside and Ian should arrive at any moment. We have a carriage waiting. 
SUSAN: A carriage? Oh, that's better than a tumbril. 
DOCTOR: Yes. I. 
SUSAN: What's happening? 
DOCTOR: They've just heard about the downfall of Robespierre. A sort of celebration, you know? 
SUSAN: Oh, look! 
(Robespierre is dragged in) 
SOLDIER: Jailer! 
JAILER: Yes. What is it about? 
SOLDIER: A prisoner for you. 
JAILER: Oh, Citizen Robespierre? This is indeed an honour. 
SOLDIER: Don't waste your breath on him. He can't answer you back. He tried writing us a letter but, too bad we don't read, hey? 
SUSAN: Let's go back to the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, Susan. The rabble are far too busy to bother about us. Everybody lived in fear yesterday of that man, and today. Let's go, Susan. Let's go. 
[Opposite the Prison]

JULES: Yes, the fall of Robespierre has changed everything for me. 
IAN: I'm sure it has, Jules. What are you going to do now? 
JULES: First I must find Jean. Then I shall wait somewhere in the country and see how this situation in Paris develops. 
IAN: Going to be disturbed for a long time, I think. 
JULES: Yes, I know. I wonder who will emerge as the next ruler of France? 
IAN: Remember the name, Napoleon Bonaparte. 
JULES: Corsican? Ruling France? 
STIRLING: Well, if you're certain that's where you want to be left. 
BARBARA: That's the place. We'll be safe there. 
STIRLING: Yes, but I don't 
BARBARA: Please. No questions. Promise? 
STIRLING: Very well, if that's what you want. Now that I'm going home, I just can't wait to see England again. 
BARBARA: Oh, England. I know how you feel only too well. 
STIRLING: Why don't you all come with me? 
BARBARA: Er, no. We must travel our way. 
STIRLING: Barbara, who are you really? Where do you all come from? 
JULES: Here they are! 
IAN: He's got Susan! 
SUSAN: Ian! 
DOCTOR: Now come along. Don't stand around. It's too dangerous. 
IAN: Come along. Hurry. 
JULES: Come LeMaitre. We mustn't keep them waiting. I hope they have a pleasant journey. 
STIRLING: So do I. But to where, Jules? Funny, I get the impression they don't know where they're heading for. Come to that, do any of us?

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Well, I can assure you, my dear Barbara, Napoleon would never have believed you. 
IAN: Yes, Doctor, but supposing we had written Napoleon a letter, telling him, you know, some of the things that were going to happen to him. 
SUSAN: It wouldn't have made any difference, Ian. He'd have forgotten it, or lost it, or thought it was written by a maniac. 
BARBARA: I suppose if we'd tried to kill him with a gun, the bullet would have missed him. 
DOCTOR: Well, it's hardly fair to speculate, is it? No, I'm afraid you belittle things. Our lives are important, at least to us. But as we see, so we learn. 
IAN: And what are we going to see and learn next, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, unlike the old adage, my boy, our destiny is in the stars, so let's go and search for it.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: We're approaching a planet. 
IAN: Which one? 
DOCTOR: We shall soon see. 
BARBARA: Ow! 
DOCTOR: What's the matter, my dear? 
BARBARA: I've burnt myself. It's hot! 
DOCTOR: Oh, something overheating here. Just as well we're landing. Susan, check the fault locator, please. 
SUSAN: Yes, Grandfather. 
BARBARA: We're not going to blow up or anything, are we? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, of course not. It's just, well, there we were, in the late eighteenth century and I tried another frequency to side-step the ship back into the middle of the twentieth century. 
SUSAN: There's something on QR18, Grandfather, and A14D. 
(A klaxon sounds) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! Grandfather! The door's opening! 
DOCTOR: What's happening? (frantically flipping switches) Close the doors, please. We haven't materialised properly. Quickly! 
IAN: What do you mean, close the doors? 
DOCTOR: Don't argue, dear boy. It's an emergency! Close the doors! 
(Susan, Barbara and Ian rush to push the doors shut, and finally succeed) 
BARBARA: Is everything all right? 
DOCTOR: We're just landing. 
IAN: Are you all right, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: What? 
IAN: Are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Oh, please don't bother me. 
BARBARA: What happened just then? 
DOCTOR: Susan, go back to the fault locator and I want you to check everything, child. Do you understand? Everything! 
BARBARA: Well, at least we seem to be all right. 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't be childish. They opened. The doors opened before we properly materialised. 
IAN: But what does it mean? Look, you needn't keep it a secret from us. 
DOCTOR: What? 
BARBARA: Doctor, don't keep us in suspense. 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't go on with these futile questions, please. Can't you understand? Can't you see? 
IAN: No, we can't. That's just it. 
DOCTOR: We were just about to materialise, when the doors opened and we hadn't properly adjusted. 
BARBARA: You mean something went out of the ship? 
DOCTOR: No, that's impossible. 
IAN: Came inside? 
DOCTOR: Oh please, don't keep talking on the twentieth century level. I'm talking about time travel. Neither of you can understand what I'm talking about, I can see that. 
IAN: How could we? You've never explained it to us. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, I 
SUSAN: Grandfather, everything's all right. There isn't a fault anywhere, not even a yellow standby. 
DOCTOR: There must be something wrong, Susan. I shall have to check that fault locator myself to make sure. Excuse me. 
BARBARA: Oh, I do wish he wouldn't talk in riddles. 
IAN: So do I. Susan, perhaps you can help us. 
SUSAN: I just know the most dangerous moment is at the point of materialisation. 
BARBARA: Nothing's ever happened to us before. 
SUSAN: Well the doors have never opened like that before. 
DOCTOR: Well, happily no harm's been done. It's most puzzling. Oh, my dear Barbara, was I rude to you just now? If so I'm so sorry. I always forget the niceties under pressure. Please forgive me. 
BARBARA: There's nothing to forgive. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Well, I suppose everything's all right and you see the temperature there. It's quite safe to go outside. Oh, Susan, just turn on the scanner and let's try and see where we are. 
(The scanner goes bang) 
SUSAN: It's shattered! 
IAN: Perhaps you need a new tube, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Did you notice the way it blew out? 
BARBARA: Yes, it was like an internal explosion of some sort. 
DOCTOR: Like something too big for it's frame. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: But yet I don't know, that can't be right. 
IAN: What do we do now, Doctor? Take the scanner out and strip it down? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, no, dear boy. No, it's most puzzling of course, but now we don't know what's behind those doors. 
BARBARA: Well, we must go outside and look. You said it was quite safe. 
DOCTOR: Yes. I wonder why the? Well, we must see. 
SUSAN: Shall I open the doors, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Yes, please, Susan. But all of you, cautiously, please. 
(Barbara and Susan go out) 
IAN: Doctor, what made the doors open before? 
DOCTOR: The space pressure was far too great whilst we were materialising. The strange thing is that we all came out of it unscathed. It's most puzzling. It's a big mystery, my boy. Come along.

[Outside the Tardis]

(Susan and Barbara are examining something by a rock face) 
SUSAN: It's like a vine or something. 
DOCTOR: Now why wouldn't the scanner show us all this, hmm? 
IAN: Perhaps that was the only damage to the ship, Doctor. Overloading on the scanner circuits. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose so. It could be. What a strange rock formation. 
IAN: Yes it is, isn't it. 
BARBARA: There are two different types of rock. Doctor, look. This is ordinary stone up here, but this down here seems to be quite different. 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, here, come here. Look here, is that cement? 
IAN: It might be. 
DOCTOR: Rather a rough kind, isn't it? 
IAN: Yes, very rough. They look like pebbles of sand, don't they. 
DOCTOR: Yes. It's manufactured, anyway, to hold the stone in place. You know, to fix it firmly beneath. 
SUSAN: I'd have thought the stone was heavy enough to keep itself in place. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's all most odd, isn't it. Most odd. Now, Barbara, I suggest that you and I take that path and Susan and you, sir, go that way. 
IAN: Yes, all right, but stay within calling distance, and if you see anything, sing out. We'll do the same. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
(Ian and Susan go off, then Barbara sees a very strange, large thing on the rock face) 
BARBARA: Doctor! Doctor, it's a huge snake! 
DOCTOR: What? A snake? 
BARBARA: Let's call the others. 
DOCTOR: Wait, wait, wait. Yes, I think it's dead. 
BARBARA: That's a fantastic size. 
DOCTOR: No eyes, no head. you see. The skin's interesting, isn't it. 
BARBARA: Interesting? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's a down, you see. 
BARBARA: Doctor, are you sure it isn't just sleeping? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, no, it's quite dead. No, no. Death, you see, has it's own particular posture and appearance. Yes, yes. Let's go a bit further. 
(Meanwhile) 
IAN: Warm, isn't it. 
SUSAN: Yes. Ian, look at this. 
(a large curved object on the ground) 
IAN: That's odd. I suppose it couldn't be an egg. Not that size. 
SUSAN: There are more of them over there, look. 
IAN: Yes. Ostrich? Ought to be rounder than this. 
SUSAN: Strange. There are dozens of them over here. There's a whole pile of them. 
(then she comes face to face with a giant insect) 
SUSAN: Ian! Ian! It is dead, isn't it? 
IAN: Yes. It's dead, all right. Stiff as a poker. What a fantastic size. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: It's a giant ant. 
SUSAN: It's a fighter, is he? Looks as though it was trying to carry these eggs. 
IAN: Yes, well, it's natural behaviour for an ant when it's attacked. Take the eggs to safety. The worker ant'd give his life rather than abandon the eggs, you know. 
SUSAN: Well he couldn't have had much of a chance, could he? I mean, he must have died quickly. 
IAN: Yes. Look at these eggs scattered about. The other ants must have been frightened away. I wonder what sort of a world could produce an insect that size. 
(further along) 
DOCTOR: Well, here we are then. This is the tail end of it, and I know what it is. It's a huge earthworm. 
BARBARA: What? 
DOCTOR: Yes, there are no earthworms this size on your planet. 
BARBARA: You're right, there aren't. 
DOCTOR: You know, except for its size, I could swear that it came from your world. Well, let's go on. Come along. 
BARBARA: It's a bit like a maze, really, all these channels. We'd better be careful not to get lost. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, we won't, no, and I'm determined not to go back until we discover something more definite. At the moment we only have one phenomenon and this mystery. 
BARBARA: What mystery? 
DOCTOR: Well, all this maze you're talking about. You know, I admit it's a bit haphazard, but it seems to have some kind of pattern about it. And this pattern suggests to me that there's a brain with a purpose behind it all. Come along. 
(elsewhere) 
SUSAN: Ian, I counted six of those dead ants. 
IAN: Yes, I know. They're all about us, everywhere. Now this is really baffling. 
(It is a massive billboard, or so it seems) 
SUSAN: A huge picture of Night-Scented Stock. 
IAN: Yes, it is. But why put up a picture of it? I don't get it. The writing. Seed Company Limited, Norwich. 
SUSAN: Norwich! That's England, isn't it? Norfolk. 
IAN: Yes, it is. Susan, this means we're on Earth. Something very odd here. First those ants, now this. I suppose it couldn't be part of a crazy exhibition. You know, where everything had been increased in size. 
(Meanwhile) 
DOCTOR: Well now, this is interesting. This has been cut by a manufacturer. Look out! 
(The piece of timber falls over) 
DOCTOR: Are you all right? 
BARBARA: Yes. Fine. 
DOCTOR: That was a near miss. It would have given you a nasty headache. 
SUSAN: Hey, look at the end of that. It's all charred. 
DOCTOR: You can see quite clearly what this is. It's a matchstick. 
BARBARA: It certainly looks like one. 
DOCTOR: No, it doesn't just look like one, it is a matchstick. 
BARBARA: What, that size? 
DOCTOR: Don't you see? That huge earthworm, and now this? Can't you see what's happened, hmm? 
(Back at the flower picture) 
IAN: I don't understand this at all, Susan. I'm going to have a look round the other side of this. 
SUSAN: All right. 
IAN: Look at this matchbox. (he climbs in) It must be an exhibition, Susan. Something like the World's Fair, things this size. 
SUSAN: No, Ian. 
IAN: Well, what else? Look at the scale of things. 
SUSAN: You're wrong, Ian. Completely wrong. I thought just now that something was wrong when I saw that, but now I'm sure. 
IAN: All right, what's your theory then? 
SUSAN: These things haven't been made bigger. We've been made smaller. 
(at the match) 
BARBARA: Smaller? 
DOCTOR: We have been reduced roughly to the size of an inch. 
(matchbox) 
IAN: An inch? 
(at the match) 
DOCTOR: You, me, all of us and the ship. 
(Then we are shown that the Tardis is in a gap in the crazy paving of a garden path) 
DOCTOR: We must get hold of the others quickly and return to the Tardis. 
(at the matchbox) 
IAN: No, Susan, no. It can't be. 
SUSAN: I'm right, Ian. I know I am. That's the danger Grandfather was afraid of when the doors opened. He wouldn't admit it was possible, that's all. 
IAN: It isn't possible, Susan. It's ridiculous. 
SUSAN: Oh, Ian, work it out for yourself. The doors of Tardis opened. That means the space pressure caused us to reduce. 
(It suddenly goes dark and there is a loud noise) 
IAN: What's that? 
SUSAN: What is it? 
IAN: Run, Susan, run! 
(A man picks up his briefcase and matchbox and walks to the house. The light returns) 
SUSAN: Ian? Ian, where are you! 
BARBARA [OC]: Susan! 
SUSAN: Barbara! 
BARBARA [OC]: Susan! 
SUSAN: Barbara, over here. 
(Barbara and the Doctor come around the seed packet) 
SUSAN: Oh, Barbara! 
BARBARA: Susan, what's the matter? 
DOCTOR: What's happened? 
SUSAN: There was a great big matchbox, a huge one, and Ian and I came to have a look and he sat on it, and there was this terrible noise and he fell inside it and now it's gone! It's gone and Ian's inside it! 
BARBARA: All right, Susan, it's all right. 
DOCTOR: Well someone picked it up, I suppose. 
(The owner of the matchbox puts it down, and Ian massages his sore shoulders)

[Edge of paving stone]

SUSAN: We can climb this and see over the top. Oh Barbara, I can't reach it. 
BARBARA: All right, I'll do it. 
DOCTOR: No, no, now, please, no. Let me do it. You might hurt yourself. You just let me, hmm. 
SUSAN: Be careful, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
SUSAN: Steady. 
DOCTOR: I'm all right. Yes, well it looks a tremendous distance to me. There's a house over there, and there's a man sitting down, reading something. It's a notebook, I think. 
BARBARA: Did he have a matchbox? 
DOCTOR: How do I know? 
BARBARA: I don't know how you know, but do you suppose he could have? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose so. Watch what you're doing, will you? 
BARBARA: Well, look, Doctor, give us some hope. I mean, Ian's inside that matchbox. 
DOCTOR: Gently, gently, gently. We've got to find Chesterton. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, supposing the man walks off with it? 
DOCTOR: Courage, my dear. I know all this is a bit of a nightmare, but we've just got to get Ian back and then we can go back to the ship. 
SUSAN: And then can you get us back to normal size? 
DOCTOR: Of course, yes, I'll try. There's always a chance. But first things first. We must find Chesterton. We can't go back that way. We must go back the same way that we came.

[Patio]

(The man is reading a small notebook. Then he takes a cigarette from a packet and puts it in his mouth. He spots a cat cleaning itself and calls to it, but it takes no notice of him. He puts his notebook into the briefcase and is about to pick up his matchbox when another man offers him a light instead) 
FARROW: Oh, hello. Thank you. Mister Forrester, isn't it? We spoke on the telephone. 
FORRESTER: Yes, I got here as quickly as I could. I hope you haven't taken any action yet. 
FARROW: Not yet, but I have written my report. 
FORRESTER: You do realise what's at stake here, Mister Farrow? The early experiments were noted by the Ministry, welcomed in fact. I've already geared factories, advertising and all the rest of it to start pushing DN6. 
FARROW: I'm sorry about that, but I can't give you the approval that you want. 
FORRESTER: We could of course spend more time on the refining. 
FARROW: Oh, there's much more to it than that, as I mentioned to you on the telephone. 
FORRESTER: You want to bring in another expert to go over the tests again. 
FARROW: You're not a scientist, are you. Well, let me put it this way. On the surface, DN6 appears to have all the characteristics of a major breakthrough in the manufacture of insecticide. I can quite understand why you've pinned all your hopes on it, particularly as my own Minister was so enthusiastic. But the very exhaustive tests I have made show that DN6 is totally destructive. 
FORRESTER: Well, that was the idea, wasn't it? I mean, Smithers says it'll even prevent locusts from breeding, wipe them out altogether. 
FARROW: I don't think I'm making myself quite clear. There are many insects which make a vital contribution to agriculture, and these insects must not die. Did you know that? 
FORRESTER: Does Smithers know about this? 
FARROW: Well, I have expressed my doubts to him, but he's so engrossed in this venture that I shall have to break the hard facts to him very gently. 
FORRESTER: I see. You're aware, of course, that if it doesn't go into production I shall be completely ruined. 
FARROW: That is very unfortunate, but really you should have waited until we'd given you the go-ahead. 
FORRESTER: Well that's all very well, but it doesn't help me, does it. Surely we can work something out. There's a fortune to be made out of this. 
FARROW: I don't think I want to go on with this conversation. Really I shouldn't be seeing you at all, except that I did promise over the phone that I'd explain the facts to you in person. 
FORRESTER: What happens now? 
FARROW: Well, officially my holiday commenced yesterday. I've a small boat down in the harbour and I'm going to make a tour of the rivers of France. But before I go today, I shall telephone my Ministry and then post them my report. 
> FORRESTER: Couldn't you leave it until you get back from your holiday? Give me a little grace? 
FARROW: Oh, you know I couldn't do that. 
FORRESTER: Do you know why I'm a success, Mister Farrow? Because I've never allowed the word can't to exist. There's always a way. Always. 
FARROW: Not this time. This isn't business, this is science. The formula is unacceptable and I can't, and I do mean can't, Mister Forrester, allow DN6 to go into production. Now I'll make that phone call. 
(Forrester draws a small pistol) 
FORRESTER: Just a moment.

[Garden path]

(A bee suddenly falls to the ground in front of the travellers) 
BARBARA: Don't move. 
DOCTOR: It's not moving. 
SUSAN: Don't touch it. 
DOCTOR: It's perfectly stiff. 
BARBARA: It could still sting. 
DOCTOR: Ha! What an awe-inspiring sight. Now what chance would human beings have, I really wonder, in the world of creatures like this bee, hmm? 
SUSAN: None at all. 
DOCTOR: Take a closer look. 
SUSAN: Well I haven't taken my eyes off it, Grandfather. It hasn't even trembled. I think you're right. It is dead. 
DOCTOR: It's the same distinctive aroma. 
BARBARA: Yes, I've noticed it on all the other dead things. 
SUSAN: Well that must be what's killing them, then. 
DOCTOR: I wonder what it is that could kill off nature like this. 
SUSAN: What worries me is all the different things it's killing. Things that fly in the air, things that move on the ground, things that move under the ground. It's so indiscriminate. 
BARBARA: Doctor, whatever it is that's killing these things, could it kill us too? 
DOCTOR: Well, we must presume that it can. So no eating or drinking until we've done our very best to find Ian, hmm? 
(There's a loud noise) 
SUSAN: That's not thunder, surely? 
DOCTOR: Sounded more like an ancient cannon.

[Patio]

(Farrow is dead. Ian has the chance to climb out of the matchbox)

[Garden path]

DOCTOR: Well, we're progressing nicely. 
BARBARA: Seen a lot more of those dead ants, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Rather wide-spread, I'm afraid. 
BARBARA: Oh dear. I wonder what would have happened to us if any of those creatures had still been alive. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder. I wonder. 
(Ian holds up his handkerchief in front of Farrow's nose to check he isn't breathing. Then we next meet him back with the others) 
SUSAN: And you say you saw that man? 
IAN: Yes, he's over here. 
BARBARA: Oh, not any further, please. I'm exhausted. It's taken us ages to get here. 
DOCTOR: What's that smell? Cordite? Gunpowder, hmm? 
IAN: Yes. That would explain the explosion, and also the man. It's not far. Come on and I'll show you.

[By Farrow's body]

(The cat is keeping an eye on them) 
IAN: He's been shot dead. 
BARBARA: Are you sure he is dead? 
IAN: Oh, yes. 
BARBARA: There's nothing but death all around us. 
SUSAN: Yes, what's happening here? 
DOCTOR: You weren't with us, Chesterton, but every insect we came across is dead. 
IAN: Yes, Susan and I saw a great many huge dead ants. 
SUSAN: And everything else is the same here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and we don't know what it was that killed them. That man, he's been shot, murdered. 
BARBARA: What would kill insects in a perfectly ordinary garden. I mean, pests one can understand, but surely it's wrong to bees and worms and things, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Quite so. Both are vital to the growth of things. However, we must leave this simple mystery and get back to the ship. As I said, my dear, it's fortunate for all of us that everything is dead. 
(Susan turns round and screams) 
SUSAN: Argh! Grandfather! 
(It's the cat)

Episode Two - Dangerous Journey

IAN: Don't move, any of you. 
DOCTOR: And whatever you do, don't look into the cat's eyes. Close your own if you want to. 
IAN: Doctor, I think the cat's losing interest. 
DOCTOR: Don't relax. One swipe of its paw would smash us to pieces. 
(The cat moves off) 
DOCTOR: Well, we can't get back to the ship just yet, and you know how fast cats can move. And another thing, we could be mistaken for mice and I don't fancy being part of the cat's diet. 
BARBARA: It gets more horrifying every moment. 
SUSAN: Couldn't we make contact with the people here somehow? 
DOCTOR: No, I'm afraid not. 
SUSAN: Well, why not? They might be able to help us. 
DOCTOR: It's out of the question, my dear. How can we possibly communicate with them? 
IAN: Imagine a record played at the wrong speed, Susan. We'd sound like a little squeak to them and they'd sound like a low growl to us. 
BARBARA: Anyway, even if we could communicate, what would they do to us? We're freaks. They'd put us in a glass case and examine us through a microscope. 
SUSAN: Oh, that's a thought, isn't it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I would add another and more important factor. The people who live in this house are murderers. Or one of them is. Therefore we can't expect sympathy and understanding from an insane or a criminal mind. 
SUSAN: Yes, what about that dead man? 
BARBARA: Oughtn't we to do something about it? 
DOCTOR: Well, what can we do, my dear? I mean, surely this is the question. Normally I wouldn't hesitate, but the destruction of the life force is frightful. There it is. I mean, what can we do as we are? 
IAN: Well, I can't see any sign of that cat, for how much safety that gives us. 
DOCTOR: Well, shall we proceed? 
(It suddenly goes dark) 
IAN: I can see a huge leg coming. Run! 
(Barbara trips) 
IAN: Oh, Barbara. Go on, Susan. 
SUSAN: Let me help you, Ian. 
IAN: Go on! 
BARBARA: Sorry. 
IAN: It's all right. This way, quickly. 
(Once again, the four are split up into pairs) 
SUSAN: Grandfather, they were almost stepped on! 
DOCTOR: Oh, they're all right, they're all right. It's a pity they didn't come this way, though. 
SUSAN: Shall we go over to them? 
DOCTOR: No, no, it's dangerous. Let's go over to that pipe there.

[Farrow's briefcase]

IAN: Barbara, quick, in the briefcase. It's our only chance.

[Patio]

SMITHERS: You're sure he's dead? 
FORRESTER: Of course I'm sure. You know he had a gun. 
SMITHERS: He didn't seem the sort of man who'd need one. 
FORRESTER: He pulled it out of his pocket and told me he was stealing the formula. I struggled with him. The gun must have been turned into his body. It went off. 
(Smithers rolls the body over) 
SMITHERS: I wouldn't try telling that story to the police, if I were you. 
FORRESTER: Oh? Why not? 
SMITHERS: Oh, don't be a fool. He's been shot through the heart from some feet away. Even I can see that and I'm no expert. No powder burns around the bullet hole. 
FORRESTER: You're very detached about it. 
SMITHERS: What did you expect, hysterics? I've seen more death than you could imagine. People dying of starvation all over the world. What do you think I started on research for? What puzzles me is how cool you are. 
FORRESTER: I don't feel guilty if that's what you mean. I'm too busy working out what the implications are. 
SMITHERS: Destroying the last year's work. That's what it means. And if that seems callous, well all right, it is. Farrow was pushed onto me and he was a nuisance and a fool. Always checking every minor detail. I've worked fifteen, sometimes sixteen hours a day, every day, on this experiment. 
FORRESTER: Yes, I know. 
SMITHERS: You don't know anything! All you care about is how much money you can make. Why did you have to kill him? Couldn't you have given him money, bought him off? Oh, what's the use. 
FORRESTER: Look, Smithers, I know what you put into the experiment, but this doesn't mean the end of everything. 
SMITHERS: Of course it does. You've ruined everything. It's all finished, wasted. 
FORRESTER: Not necessarily. Farrow was going on a holiday. He has a boat. He was going to cross to France by himself in it. It's anchored about ten miles away. 
SMITHERS: Yes, I know. 
FORRESTER: If the police were to find an overturned boat and a body out at sea somewhere. 
SMITHERS: But 
FORRESTER: Don't worry. You can leave it all to me. I'll tow an outboard with me and come back in that. 
SMITHERS: Well that's your business. I don't want to know about it. 
FORRESTER: You say all I want out of the experiment is money, but you want something too, don't you. You want to see it finished, be known as the inventor of it. If the truth came out about Farrow, you can say goodbye to all that. 
SMITHERS: The experiment must go through! It's too important! Nothing else matters! Not if we can save people from dying of starvation. That's what I care about, Forrester. 
FORRESTER: All right, we'll move the body. As far as you're concerned, Farrow left here to go to his boat. I'll put his briefcase in the lab first.

[Laboratory bench]

(Forrester puts the briefcase down on the bench and leaves. Ian and Barbara stagger out) 
IAN: Come on, Barbara. Let's get out of there before it moves again. 
BARBARA: Oh, that was worse than the big dipper. 
IAN: It was. We were lucky this case was full. Of course, it had to happen to us. Of all the places to pick, we had to choose one that was movable. 
BARBARA: Have you any idea where we are? 
IAN: It's a ceiling up there. That means we're indoors and the Doctor and Susan are outside. How's your ankle? 
BARBARA: Oh, it's all right. I didn't hit it badly. Oh, I also bumped my knee against a large piece of metal. 
IAN: Well, there were a lot of things flying around in there. We were very lucky. 
BARBARA: Yes, but you know what the metal was? 
IAN: What? 
BARBARA: It sounds ridiculous. It was a paperclip. 
IAN: Yes, well, the only thing to do is to keep out in the open. If we must hide, hide behind things. 
BARBARA: Do you think we could find some water? I wouldn't mind bathing my ankle for a bit. 
IAN: Yes, all right. I'll go and have a look over here.

[Patio]

FORRESTER: Let's move the body. Where can we put him? 
SMITHERS: In the storeroom. 
(they haul the body past the grating by the drainpipe where the Doctor and Susan are hiding)

[Drainpipe]

DOCTOR: They've gone. 
SUSAN: It's much better when they're a long way away, isn't it. 
DOCTOR: Are you sure you saw one of them pick up the briefcase and go into that building behind us? 
SUSAN: Well, I definitely saw him pick up the briefcase. When he walked past us it was just like a mountain, just a blur, you know. He must have gone inside the house. Careful, Grandfather. Don't fall down there, will you. 
DOCTOR: Phew. Awful smell of chemical in there. (the downspout) 
SUSAN: Phew, yes. It's not just an ordinary drainpipe, is it. 
DOCTOR: No. I wonder if that pipe extends into the room where that briefcase went. 
SUSAN: Are you thinking of climbing up the inside of it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, of course, my dear. There's no other way. If you go in there you'll see it's all corroded, so there's plenty of hand and foot holds. That chemical smell means that it's germ-free. 
SUSAN: It's too far for you, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Well, if it is, I shall have to give up, and I'm not going to give up before I've tried. And remember, you must think of the other two. They must be constantly reminding themselves they're only one inch high. There's only the two of us to help them. 
SUSAN: All right. But you let me go first. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, go on.

[Laboratory bench]

IAN: Nothing much that way, except what I took to be a gas tap. No water, though, Barbara. Sorry. 
BARBARA: Oh, that's all right. Seems to be better now. I've a shocking bruise on my knee, though. 
IAN: I wish I could do something to help you. 
BARBARA: I think we ought to try in this direction. 
IAN: Yes, well, it's the only one we haven't explored unless we go further afield. 
BARBARA: Now, let's see. 
(she tries putting her weight on her ankle) 
IAN: All right? 
BARBARA: Yes, that's fine. 
IAN: Sure? 
BARBARA: Right. Let's try that way.

[In the drainpipe]

SUSAN: Are you all right down there, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR [OC]: Yes, I'm all right, my dear. I can manage very well. 
SUSAN: Good. It's just as well this pipe's corroded, isn't it. There are plenty of footholds. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Good. Well, onwards and upwards, my dear, eh?

[Laboratory bench]

IAN: Look at those enormous test tubes. 
BARBARA: Ian, look at this. 
IAN: Hmm? Yes. 
(a pile of seeds) 
BARBARA: What do you suppose it is? Corn? Wheat? 
IAN: Wheat. Still haven't thought of a way of getting out of this place. 
(she picks up a foot-long seed behind his back) 
BARBARA: Oh, yes, you're right. It is wheat. Oh, it's all covered in some sticky stuff like toffee. 
IAN: Hey, Barbara. Look at this. 
BARBARA: Give me a handkerchief, will you? 
IAN: Do you see what this is? A book of litmus papers. How often have I held a bit of litmus paper in my fingers. Oh well, makes a handy seat. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: You realise what this place is? 
BARBARA: Oh, it's some sort of laboratory. 
IAN: Yes. I think it must explain those dead insects and things. They must be doing some experiments. Of course, it makes it all the more dangerous for us. 
BARBARA: Why do you say that? 
IAN: Whatever killed those insects could easily kill us. 
BARBARA: The Doctor said something like that. I'd forgotten. 
IAN: Well, don't touch anything, eh? 
BARBARA: But, but Ian. 
IAN: I mean, look at the way these seeds are coated. They're obviously samples. Yes, I think they must be inventing a new insecticide and they've sprayed these seeds with it. 
BARBARA: Surely, I mean, couldn't it be just preserving oil? 
IAN: I doubt it. Anyway, you keep away from it. Got a very distinctive smell, that's one good thing. 
BARBARA: I think we should find the others and get back to the ship. 
IAN: Yes, I know. I've been wracking my brains. We're so high up here. Have you got any ideas? 
BARBARA: No, I haven't. I wish I had. 
IAN: Hey, Barbara, we can get back, you know. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: All we've got to do is find a piece of string and get down to ground level. 
BARBARA: String would be too thick for us. What we really need is a reel of cotton. It's all so ridiculous, Ian. 
IAN: Barbara, we must concentrate on getting back. Just forget how absurd things are. Concentrate on getting back. Do you understand? 
BARBARA: Yes, all right. 
IAN: Hey, that briefcase. Barbara, if we could find enough of those paperclips, we could string them together and make some sort of a ladder. 
BARBARA: Yes, that's an idea. 
IAN: Let's do it, hey? Come on, don't lets give up. 
BARBARA: I'm not giving up. 
IAN: Good, because the next problem is how to open the flap of the briefcase. I don't fancy struggling around there in the dark. 
BARBARA: Oh yes, we might find something in the briefcase which would tell us more about that stuff. That insecticide or whatever it is. 
IAN: Well, maybe, but the other things are much more important.

[In the drainpipe]

SUSAN [OC]: Are you sure you're all right, Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: (breathless) Yes, I'm all right. I'm coming, my child. I'm coming.

[Laboratory bench]

(back at the briefcase) 
BARBARA: Can you get the flap open? 
IAN [OC]: I'm just going to try. 
BARBARA: Can I help? 
IAN [OC]: No, I'm all right. Just give me a moment to think this out.

[Briefcase lock]

(he tries pushing at the lock) 
IAN: Well, it doesn't push downwards, that's sure. 
BARBARA [OC]: Try right to left, then. 
IAN: Great minds think alike.

[Laboratory bench]

IAN [OC]: No, doesn't move that way either. I'm going round the other side. 
BARBARA: All right. 
(a fly has landed behind her, unseen)

[Briefcase lock]

IAN: Ah, success! I've done it, Barbara. Barbara?

[Laboratory bench]

(Barbara is transfixed at the sight of the fly, then she faints. Ian arrives) 
IAN: Barbara. 
(the fly flies off, then there's another noise. Ian hauls Barbara over his shoulder and carries her away)

[Laboratory]

(the noise was the door opening. Forrester and Smithers enter) 
SMITHERS: You don't have to watch everything I do. 
FORRESTER: I like to know what's going on. 
SMITHERS: There's blood on the flag stones. You don't seem to have noticed that. 
FORRESTER: I shan't forget this, Smithers. 
SMITHERS: Oh yes, you will. You'll forget all about it. Killing Farrow and whatever you do with the body, you'll rub it right out of your mind. 
FORRESTER: Well, of course. 
SMITHERS: And don't think I'm doing this for you. But if there's one chance in a million of the experiment going through, of making it work, then I must do it. I must. 
FORRESTER: That's sensible, practical. 
SMITHERS: Practical? It's very practical, making me an accessory. 
FORRESTER: Making? 
SMITHERS: Yes, making. You knew perfectly well how I felt about DN6, how much I'd put into it, how much it meant to me. You knew I'd help you. That's why you took me out and showed me Farrow's body, wasn't it. You'd do anything to get what you want, wouldn't you. 
FORRESTER: Wouldn't you? Aren't you? 
(they leave, and we look down into the sink, where an old man is lying exhausted next to the plug and plug hole)

[Sink]

SUSAN: Grandfather? Grandfather. Grandfather, we made it. We got to the top. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know. Just leave me for a minute. I shall be all right in a little while. 
SUSAN: Come on. 
DOCTOR: Oh, the smell of that chemical very nearly overpowered me. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. Grandfather, I think I heard some people talking just now. I heard a sort of low growling sound like Ian said, you know. 
DOCTOR: Well, come to think of it, our voices sound rather odd. It's this sink, of course. It's all working like an echo chamber. 
SUSAN: Yeah. I think we should try and find them, don't you? Do you think there's a chance of them being here somewhere? 
DOCTOR: I don't know, child. I don't know.

[Laboratory bench]

(Barbara wakes with a start) 
IAN: Take it easy. 
BARBARA: Ian. 
IAN: You all right? You gave me the fright of my life when I saw you lying there. 
BARBARA: Did you see it? 
IAN: The fly, you mean. Yes, I did. It flew off. It was frightened when those men came into the room. 
BARBARA: I just turned around and there it was. Its whole body was quivering. 
IAN: Well, don't worry about it now. It's all over. It's dead. 
BARBARA: I thought you said it flew away. 
IAN: It did, but it landed on those seeds. It died instantly. 
BARBARA: Are you sure? 
IAN: Well of course I'm sure. 
BARBARA: I want to have a look. 
IAN: Why? 
BARBARA: It's all right, I'm all right now. 
(the fly is very dead on top of the pile of seeds) 
IAN: You can see the insecticide glistening on its legs. Pretty lethal stuff. That fly must have died the moment it landed. 
BARBARA: Stop it. Stop it! 
IAN: Barbara. 
BARBARA: Ian 
SUSAN [OC]: Ian! Barbara! Can you hear me? 
IAN: Susan. 
BARBARA: Susan? Where are you? 
SUSAN [OC]: Can you hear me either of you? 
BARBARA: It's coming from over there. 
IAN: Yeah. What was it you wanted to say to me? 
BARBARA: Oh, that's not important now. Listen, if Susan's found a way in, that means we can all get out. 
IAN: I know. 
SUSAN [OC] Ian! Barbara! 
BARBARA: Why is her voice so loud? 
IAN: I don't know. Coming from over here.

[Sink]

DOCTOR: You mustn't expect to hear their voices reply, my dear. This sink acts as a sound box. It's increasing the volume of your voice. 
SUSAN: How far can we expect our voices to carry?  
DOCTOR: I don't know, I don't know, Susan.  
SUSAN: Well, if we shout very loudly would the people here hear us? 
DOCTOR: No, no, Susan. No, our voices are much too high. It's a different frequency altogether, my child. Dog might be able to, perhaps, but, well, try it again. 
SUSAN: Ian! Barbara!

[Edge of the sink]

IAN: There they are! Can you see them, Barbara? Doctor! Susan! We're up here!

[Sink]

SUSAN: Hey up there! 
DOCTOR: What uncanny good luck. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather, we found them. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know, my dear. I know.

[Edge of the sink]

BARBARA: Did they really climb up that sink pipe? 
IAN: They must have done. I wonder if we can get down it. 
SUSAN [OC]: Climb down the plug chain to us. 
IAN: Yes, all right, we will. About thirty feet or thereabouts. Do you think you can make it? 
BARBARA: Yes, I'll make it somehow. It'll be worth it to see them again. 
IAN: All right, let me go first.

[Sink]

DOCTOR: Good, he's started. Now the sooner we get out of here the better. 
SUSAN: Can we climb down the pipe again, Grandfather? It was difficult coming up. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's a sure way back down to the garden, I do know that. 
SUSAN: Oh, Barbara's started, look.

[Edge of the sink]

IAN: How are you doing? 
BARBARA: Oh, all right. There's plenty to hold on to. 
IAN: Good.

[Patio]

(Smithers and Forrester have been cleaning Farrow's blood off the stones) 
FORRESTER: All right, let's go and get this muck off our hands. 
SMITHERS: There's a sink in the lab.

[Sink]

DOCTOR: Listen. There's someone in the room! Someone's come back into that room.

[Edge of the sink]

IAN: Go on up! Move! Get out. Someone's here.

[Sink]

DOCTOR: Quick, down the sink again. 
SUSAN: Oh, quick, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Yes, come along.

[Laboratory]

SMITHERS: Look at this. That fly died instantly, the moment it landed on the seed. 
FORRESTER: Which you sprayed with DN6. 
SMITHERS: But this is wonderful. Think what would happen with locusts! DN6 will wipe them out. 
FORRESTER: You don't have to keep on persuading me. I've seen the reports of every test you've made. 
SMITHERS: But I can't see how Farrow hoped to get away with lying about the effects of DN6. 
FORRESTER: He had us over a barrel. He'd written the report. Now don't keep on about it. All right, he was a fool. Thought he could get away with it. 
SMITHERS: You were saying he'd written a report. 
FORRESTER: Yes. It's in his briefcase. It'll have to go to his head of department, but with some slight amendments. 
SMITHERS: Well, I don't want to know about that. I don't want to listen. 
(and he puts the plug firmly in the plughole)

[Briefcase]

IAN: Barbara, he's standing at the sink. I can see him standing at the sink. He's turned the tap on! 
(Smithers finishes washing his hands, and removes the plug. The water starts to drain away)

Episode Three - Crisis

[Briefcase]

IAN: The Doctor and Susan are still in that sink, Barbara, and he's turned the tap on.

[Pipe]

DOCTOR: Quickly, Susan, into the overflow pipe. 
(Smithers pulls out the plug and the water rushes past them, then suddenly stops) 
DOCTOR: They've put the plug back in again. 
SUSAN: Oh, at least we're safe here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but if they fill that sink with any more water. 
SUSAN: Yes, of course, it'll come in here, down the overflow pipe. 
DOCTOR: Exactly.

[Laboratory bench]

(Barbara and Ian are by the pile of seeds) 
IAN: I'm getting used to these sounds. I think that last one must have been the door closing. 
BARBARA: Are you sure they have gone? 
IAN: I'm not sure of anything, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Ian. The Doctor and Susan, they must have been drowned. 
IAN: We don't know. We must go and find out.

[Edge of the sink]

(Ian starts to climb down the chain) 
IAN: Stay up there if you want to. 
BARBARA: No, I'm coming with you. 
IAN [OC]: You all right? 
BARBARA: You go on.

[Sink]

(The plug is not in the plug hole. Ian peers down into the pipe, then Barbara arrives) 
BARBARA: Anything? 
IAN: No. Too dark to see. Afraid there's not much hope, Barbara. 
BARBARA: What are we going to do? I mean, like this, what can we do? 
SUSAN: I said they'd be all right, Grandfather. 
(Susan and the Doctor climb out of the plug hole) 
BARBARA: Susan! 
IAN: I don't believe it! 
DOCTOR: There you are, you see, my friends, you can't get rid of us as easy as all that.

[Study]

(Forrester is editing Farrow's report, while Smithers nervously smokes a cigarette) 
FORRESTER: Yes, well, there we are. The report is ready. 
SMITHERS: All right. Well, what are you doing now? 
FORRESTER: The report itself isn't final enough. Farrow would have telephoned his department. 
SMITHERS: But you can't do that! You'll give yourself away. They'll know it isn't him speaking. 
FORRESTER: You leave this side of it to me.

[Switchboard]

HILDA: Strange Operator here. Hello? Yes, London, yes. Whitehall. WHI, yes.

[Study]

FORRESTER: Eight seven. Thank you. 
SMITHERS: How do you know who to speak to? 
FORRESTER: I've been dealing with these people for years.

[Switchboard]

HILDA: Two eight seven? Yes. Hold on. I have a call for you. Go ahead, please.

[Study]

(with a handkerchief draped over the mouthpiece of the telephone) 
FORRESTER: Hello? Is Mister Whitmore there, please? Arnold Farrow speaking. Yes. Oh, hello, how are you? Good. I'll hold on. The secretary asked me how I was. Told you it'd be all right.

[Switchboard]

HILDA: Doesn't sound like Mister Farrow at all.

[Study]

FORRESTER: The tests are very satisfactory. I'm sending in the report. Yes, it is a bad line, isn't it. Well, I would say that DN6, as they call it, is about sixty percent improvement on normal insecticide. Yes, I know I'm not usually so enthusiastic, but this is really extraordinary. Crossing over to France tonight. And I'll send in the report. Will you send in the authorisation? Good. I'll tell Forrester. Yes. Goodbye. 
SMITHERS: Well? 
FORRESTER: Perfect. As soon as they get the report, we'll get the go-ahead.

[Laboratory bench]

(they come upon a notepad) 
IAN: It certainly wasn't here before. 
SUSAN: Half drawing and half writing. Ian, it's a formula. 
IAN: Yes, I believe you're right, Susan. 
BARBARA: Do you think it's the formula for the insecticide, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Perhaps. 
BARBARA: Well, if it is, it'll tell us what we're fighting against. We might even find a cure. 
IAN: A cure? What's the good of that? 
BARBARA: I don't know. 
IAN: No, neither do I. If we're going to do anything at all, we must stop it. 
SUSAN: Yes, Ian's right, Barbara. You only need a cure if somebody's infected. What we've got to do is stop it being produced. 
BARBARA: Yes, all right. 
DOCTOR: Well I think we should take a closer look at this oversized document. The more we know about the enemy the better. 
IAN: Those things up there are definitely molecular structures. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're quite right, my boy. I only wish I could see it more as a whole. 
BARBARA: Couldn't we lever it up in some way, stand back and look at it? 
SUSAN: Yes, it'd be like a huge advertising poster, wouldn't it. 
IAN: I'm afraid it's far too heavy. We'd never lift it. 
DOCTOR: Let me have the notebook, child. Now, we shall have to make a map of this. Now, Chesterton, you start marking off a section with your feet, will you? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: And Susan and Barbara, I want you to call out to me what you see written beneath you. 
(later, the Doctor is studying what he has written) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. This is the insecticide quite clearly. It's a bit rough, of course, but it tells us the story. 
IAN: Yes. I'm not very well up in this, Doctor, but isn't that phosphoric acid? 
DOCTOR: This indicates the amount of organic esters. 
IAN: Yes, and this is mineral nitrate. That's about as far as I go, I'm afraid. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, this formula's quite clear, look, with one vital difference. The inventor has made the insecticide everlasting. 
SUSAN: That means it would seep into the soil. 
IAN: Get into the drinking water. 
BARBARA: What about human beings? 
DOCTOR: Well, given in sufficient quantity, of course, it's capable of killing human beings. 
BARBARA: Yes, if they drink and eat infected food and water. 
DOCTOR: Yes, or even coming in contact with it. 
IAN: Penetrating the skin to get into the blood stream. 
BARBARA: Well then why do we go on just sitting here? 
DOCTOR: Now, now, my dear. Gently, gently. 
BARBARA: I'm sorry. 
SUSAN: Barbara, are you all right? 
BARBARA: Yes, I feel a bit giddy. I think I must be hungry. 
DOCTOR: Yes, now there's another point to consider, my dear boy. Eating. We can't, even if we do find food here. 
IAN: Yes, well, the less we talk about food the more I'll like it. 
DOCTOR: We can go back to the sink, of course. The water in the tap is quite safe. 
IAN: Well, no need for all of us to go. I'll go and fetch some. 
DOCTOR: Ah, but I want to go into that direction. You see, there's something over there that might be the solution to all this business. 
BARBARA: Well, what's that? 
DOCTOR: A telephone, my dear. 
IAN: Oh. Come on, then, let's go.

[At the telephone]

(It is an enormous black bakelite thing, with a proper dial and handset, and wires out the back of it into the wall) 
IAN: Hmm, it's climbable. 
DOCTOR: Yes. The thing is, my boy, how heavy is that receiver? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, I think I've got just the thing. Look. We can push this underneath the receiver. 
(It's a test tube cork) 
BARBARA: Yes, there are lots more over there. 
IAN: Hey, you all right? 
BARBARA: Yes, I'm fine. I told you, I haven't eaten for ages. I think that's what it must be. Don't make a fuss. 
IAN: Well, Susan, you and I'll do the climbing, eh? 
SUSAN: Yes, all right. 
(Ian picks up the cork and hands it to the Doctor) 
IAN: And Doctor? Pass this up to Susan and she can then pass it on up to me. 
DOCTOR: Very well. 
IAN: Right, I'll get started. 
SUSAN: Can you manage all right? 
IAN [OC]: Yes, I can make it. 
DOCTOR: Oh, er, oh, Barbara, would you mind bringing another one of these, please? 
(he lifts the cork up to Susan) 
DOCTOR: Got it? 
(Barbara brings another cork) 
DOCTOR: Ah, thank you, my dear. You look very tired. 
BARBARA: Yes, I am a bit. 
DOCTOR: Well, we can manage. You just sit down and rest for a while, hmm? 
(the second cork is passed up the back of the telephone)

[Telephone handset]

IAN: Right, you'd better all come up now. 
SUSAN [OC]: Coming. Grandfather? Barbara? 
(Ian tries lifting the handset with his shoulders, but can't move it. 
DOCTOR: You think that we three can manage, eh? 
IAN: Why? 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't think Barbara's quite up to it. 
IAN: Oh, all right. Well, we can try. 
BARBARA: It's all right. I'm here. 
IAN: Ah, good. Now, listen. Susan, we're going to try and lift this end. Now you, when we get it lifted up, push this cork underneath. 
SUSAN: All right. 
IAN: All right? 
SUSAN: Yes. 
IAN: Now, you ready? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes. 
IAN: Barbara? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: Right. Now, lift! 
(they succeed) 
DOCTOR: Quickly. 
(Susan slides the cork in) 
SUSAN: Oh, got it. 
IAN: Okay, we'll try the other end now. Here we are. Same thing, Susan. 
SUSAN: Right. 
IAN: Ready now? Lift! 
SUSAN: Right. Oh, we did it.

[Switchboard]

(and because the handset is off it's cradle, the local switchboard buzzes that someone wants to place a call) 
BERT: Hilda, come and answer this thing. It's driving me mad. 
HILDA: The old farmhouse again. Hello? What number do you want?

[Telephone handset]

ALL: (shouting) Can! You! Hear! Us! 
(Barbara is listening at the other end, but only hearing a deep growl. 
ALL: Put! Us! Through! To! Police! 
IAN: Any luck? 
BARBARA: No. No, nothing at all. 
(Barbara collapses, exhausted) 
IAN: We can't have failed after trying so hard. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm afraid we have and it's my fault. I thought it was worth trying. 
IAN: Well, we must try again. 
SUSAN: Oh, Ian, I don't think it'll do any good. 
IAN: Well we must try. I'll go and tell Barbara. Hey, you've been overdoing things. 
BARBARA: Yes, yes, I think I have. 
IAN: I'll go and get you some water. It'll freshen you up, okay? 
BARBARA: Thank you. 
(he reaches for the handkerchief) 
BARBARA: What are you doing? 
IAN: I want your handkerchief. I'll soak it in 
BARBARA: No. 
IAN: What's the matter? 
BARBARA: You can't have it. You mustn't touch it. 
IAN: Barbara? 
BARBARA: No one must touch 
(and she passes out) 
SUSAN: Barbara! 
(The Doctor picks up the handkerchief with his pen) 
DOCTOR: There. The same aroma. Insecticide. You didn't eat or drink anything? 
IAN: Well, no, certainly not. 
DOCTOR: She's got insecticide on her hands. She touched it. 
IAN: Well she never told me. I never saw her do this. I. She did borrow my handkerchief. 
DOCTOR: Where were you then? 
IAN: By that pile of seeds. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you see, she got it on her hands. She rubbed it off on your handkerchief. 
SUSAN: Oh, why didn't she tell us? 
IAN: You can help her, can't you, Doctor? 
SUSAN: Grandfather, we can do something, can't we? 
BARBARA: What happened? Did I? 
SUSAN: You fainted, that's all. 
BARBARA: The insecticide. Is that why I feel like this? 
DOCTOR: Yes. You've got some of it on your hands and you didn't tell us anything about it. It was very wrong of you, wasn't it. 
BARBARA: Am I, am I? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no, this little attack you've experienced is only temporary. 
SUSAN: Take it easy. Come on, take it easy. 
(Ian and the Doctor go to one side) 
IAN: What can we do for her? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's urgent that we get her back to her normal size, but at the moment her protective cells are too small to cope with the molecules of poison in her bloodstream. But if we can, that dosage of insecticide will be seventy time less dangerous. Practically nothing at all.
IAN: Are you sure? 
DOCTOR: Yes, oh, quite sure. We must get her back to the ship. 
IAN: What are we waiting for. 
(back with Barbara and Susan) 
IAN: How are you feeling? 
BARBARA: Oh, a bit ropey. Could do with a glass of water. 
IAN: We're going to take you back to the ship. 
BARBARA: All right. Just give me a minute. 
IAN: Come on, Barbara. Got a long way to go. You can get us back to normal size, can you? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, of course I can, dear boy. Yes. Of course I can. (but he doesn't look so sure) I hope.

[Study]

(with the lab phone off the hook, Forrester can't make a call from this telephone) 
FORRESTER: What the devil's wrong with this phone?

[Telephone handset]

IAN: Barbara, you're ill. You've got to let us take you back to the ship. You could die. Doctor, make her see some sense. 
DOCTOR: There's nothing I can say, dear boy. Barbara's quite right. 
IAN: Susan. 
BARBARA: Ian, we must find a way to stop them. We must.

[Study]

FORRESTER: Any other phones around here? 
SMITHERS: Oh, yes, there's one in the lab next to the sink. 
FORRESTER: Maybe that's where the trouble is. Perhaps the phone's off the hook or something. 
SMITHERS: Yes. I'll go and see. I want to have a look at Farrow's notes. 
FORRESTER: Why? 
(Smithers leaves and Forrester gets out his pistol, checking it still has a bullet in it)

[Laboratory bench]

DOCTOR: Yes, that's it. We'll cause trouble. Start a fire, my boy. 
IAN: Yes. Can we start a big enough one to do any real damage? 
DOCTOR: Well, we can try, anyway. There's nothing like a good fire, is there? IAN: What do you think, Barbara? 
BARBARA: I think it's a good idea. If we could manage to start a fire it would certainly attract people here. 
SUSAN: Yes! They'd find that man's body. 
IAN: Yes. That's it. 
(the gas tap to the bunsen burner) 
SUSAN: What? 
IAN: If we could only turn it on. 
SUSAN: Well then what? 
IAN: I'll soon show you. 
(rumble as the door opens) 
SUSAN: Look out! 
IAN: Quick! Behind this water tank.

[Laboratory]

FORRESTER: Who put these under the phone? 
SMITHERS: DN6. It's DN6. 
FORRESTER: Come on, I want an explanation. Why did you put these under the phone to stop me using it? 
(but Smithers is frantically trying to wipe the sticky insecticide off his hands) 
SMITHERS: Oh, that's not important now. 
(the phone rings) 
FORRESTER: Of course it's important. 
SMITHERS: Will you listen to me?

[Switchboard]

HILDA: Oh, you've replaced your receiver now, have you, Mister Smithers? 
FORRESTER [OC]: This isn't Mister Smithers. The extension was left off. I'm sorry. 
HILDA: Is that Mister Farrow?

[Laboratory]

FORRESTER: Farrow? No. 
HILDA [OC]: Oh, the other gentleman. I see. Only I've a call for Mister Farrow. 
FORRESTER: Oh, er, just a minute.

[Switchboard]

BERT: Do you think you ought to be doing this, Hilda? 
HILDA: Shh. Listen.

[Laboratory]

(Forrester puts his handkerchief over the mouthpiece) 
FORRESTER: Farrow here. Who is this?

[Switchboard]

HILDA: You see? It's the same man. 
BERT: Get him to talk a bit more.

[Laboratory]

HILDA [OC]: Mister Farrow, I've got a London call for you. Will you accept the charges?

[Switchboard]

FORRESTER [OC]: London? Oh, er, yes, er, all right. 
HILDA: Hold on, please. 
BERT: Hmm, yes, they do sound alike, I must say that. Perhaps I had better go up there. 
HILDA: Hallo? Mister Farrow?

[Laboratory]

FORRESTER: Yes. 
HILDA [OC]: I'm sorry, the number has broken the connection. Perhaps they'll call again. 
FORRESTER: Oh, er, very well. Thank you.

[Switchboard]

HILDA: Bert, it's the same man. No doubt about it. 
(Bert puts on his police helmet) 
BERT: Well, we'll soon find out. 
(Meanwhile, Smithers has a little dig in the garden, and is dismayed at what he finds)

[Gas tap]

SUSAN: Oh, I think it's moving a bit. 
DOCTOR: Come on, all together. 
(Barbara adds her weight to the end of the lever) 
DOCTOR: It's coming.

[Matchbox]

(Ian is wrestling with a caber-sized match) 
SUSAN: Ian, the tap's ready to turn on now. 
IAN: Good. Now, Susan, I've wedged the matchbox against a knothole. What we're going to do is run at the side of it. 
SUSAN: Like using a battering ram. 
IAN: That's the idea. Come on, get hold of it. Right.

[Gas tap]

DOCTOR: Yes, I think that's got it in about the right angle, the gas jet. 
BARBARA: Yes. Well, all we'll succeed in doing is just melting this tin. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, I've had a good look at this. This is pressurised. It's a spray can. Our problem will be to get away far enough when it explodes. 
BARBARA: Explodes? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, it's going to explode and when it does it'll go off just like, well, to us a thousand pound bomb. 
(well, it does say Highly Flammable on the side)

[Garden]

SMITHERS: It's killed everything. Everything! 
FORRESTER: Smithers.

[Gas tap]

(Ian and Susan try to strike the match) 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, dear boy. Try hitting the box at a sharper angle. More force, more vim, hmm?

[Matchbox]

IAN: Doctor, have you ever tried to lift one of these things? 
SUSAN: Come on, Ian. Let's try again. Charge! 
(the match flares into life)

[Gas tap]

DOCTOR: Come on, let's light the gas jet. Turn it on.

[Matchbox]

IAN: Turn it down a bit. You don't want us burned alive. Doctor, Barbara, get behind that tap. Get behind, that's it. Ready, Susan? Now take it easy, eh? Please. 
(they light the gas)

[Garden]

FORRESTER: And then he told me he couldn't authorise DN6. I had too much money sunk into it. I had to kill him. Once I'd started I had to see it through. All the way.

[Tank]

DOCTOR: Shan't be long now. 
IAN: Take as much cover as you can. When that tin explodes there'll be metal flying all over the place. 
SUSAN: It'll be just like that air raid, Grandfather. Do you remember? 
DOCTOR: Yes, very well, and what infernal machines those Zeppelins were.

[Laboratory]

SMITHERS: Forrester, think what you're doing. DN6 is more deadly than radiation! Doesn't that mean anything to you? 
FORRESTER: Get the briefcase. 
(the insecticide can explodes. Forrester staggers back, blinded. Smithers gets his gun but then Bert the policeman takes it off him)

[Tank]

DOCTOR: It's worked! It's worked! Come on, all of you. Back to the ship. Susan, take care of Barbara. Quickly, quickly. 
(the Doctor picks up a seed with his cloak) 
IAN: Doctor, what are you doing? That thing's covered with poison. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know it is. I know all about it. 
IAN: Well, what do you want it for? 
DOCTOR: You'll be surprised. Go on, lead on.

[Laboratory]

BERT: He'll live. Now I have some questions that need answering and turn that gas off. You'll kill the lot of us.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Got to repeat exactly the things that happened to us when we landed. 
IAN: Is there anything I can do? 
DOCTOR: Yes. That seed over there, by the chair. Take it over to that table so that we can all see it. Wrap that round it when you do it. 
(the Tardis dematerialises) 
IAN: Doctor. Doctor, I 
DOCTOR: Shh. I think it's working. Yes. Ha ha! I think it's working, my boy. 
IAN: Doctor! Look at that seed. 
(It's shrinking) 
DOCTOR: Yes! Yes! We've done it! Yes! We've done it! 
IAN: Doctor, it's incredible. That seed, it's completely vanished. 
DOCTOR: No, no, my dear boy. No. Look, you see? It hasn't vanished at all. 
SUSAN: Barbara? 
BARBARA: Hmm, I'm so thirsty. 
SUSAN: Here you are. Drink that. 
BARBARA: Oh, I'd no idea water could taste so good. 
DOCTOR: Well, well, here we are then. The patient is beginning to look her usual self again. 
IAN: Thank you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Not at all, my dear boy. Always at your service. 
BARBARA: Doctor, what happened in the laboratory? I don't remember much after the explosion. 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm happy to say our plan worked. We didn't have to fire the laboratory, but we did attract attention. Do you know, a policeman came into that room just as I was about to climb down that pipe.
BARBARA: Oh, good. Now, what about us. Can you get us back to normal? 
DOCTOR: Yes. There's your answer, my dear. 
(the grain of wheat in the palm of his hand) 
SUSAN: Grandfather, is that the seed you brought in with you? 
DOCTOR: The same seed. 
BARBARA: Then we are back to normal! 
DOCTOR: Completely, my dear. Now, before I get up and see where we are, I suggest you all go and have a good scrub, hmm? Off you go. 
(Susan, Ian and Barbara leave, and the Doctor switches on the scanner. But it's just a mass of interference lines) 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear. Now is that irritating. I had to repair that wretched thing and now look at it, I can't see a thing. Wait a moment. I think we're beginning to materialise. Perhaps I shall know now where we are.

[Riverside]

(A man wearing a nasty metal helmet staggers past a sign warning 'it is forbidden to dump bodies into the river'. He wrenches a metal collar off with a cry and walks down the steps into the water, where he drowns. Then the Tardis materialises.

[Tardis]

(the scanner is not working) 
DOCTOR: It's not clear. It's not clear at all. What has gone wrong? 
IAN: Well, Doctor, where are we now, then. 
BARBARA: Somewhere nice and quiet, I hope. 
SUSAN: Oh, yes. Let's have a holiday. 
DOCTOR: Take a look for yourselves. 
BARBARA: Well, I can't see anything. 
IAN: Neither can I. 
DOCTOR: Well, it looks like moving water to me. It might be a river somewhere. I don't know. What's the reading, Susan? 
SUSAN: Radiation nil, oxygen normal, pressure normal. Grandfather, it's an Earth reading. 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't want to boast, but we might be somewhere in London, hmm? 
IAN: Well, what are we waiting for? Let's go and have a look. 
BARBARA: Come on, open the doors.

[Riverside]

(The warehouse and embankment along the river is definitely London) 
IAN: Barbara, we made it. We're here! 
DOCTOR: Well, there we are. Back home. Your planet. 
IAN: You brought us a long way round, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: More by good luck than judgment. What a horrible mess. 
BARBARA: Are we down by the docks? 
IAN: (shouts) Hello! Pretty deserted. Probably Sunday. 
DOCTOR: It's uncanny. Wonder which era we've landed in? 
IAN: What was that, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm just wondering about the time factor, my boy. 
IAN: Oh, a year or two either way doesn't make much difference to us, you know. 
DOCTOR: Well I hope for both your sakes we're near your time, but bear in mind we might have landed in the early 1900s or the 25th century. 
BARBARA: Well, it's still London, anyway. 
IAN: Yes. Hey, what are you doing? 
SUSAN: I'm just having a look. Can't see much down there, can you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's the word I was looking for, decay. It's most odd, most odd. 
BARBARA: Doctor, what's worrying you? 
DOCTOR: Well, you take this bridge, now. It isn't an easy task, is it? Look at all this neglect all over the place. It's been abandoned, all of it. 
IAN: There's always a mess with construction work, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps, perhaps. 
BARBARA: Oh, come on, Doctor. Stop spoiling everything. 
DOCTOR: Oh my dear, now believe you me, I wouldn't spoil your homecoming for all the world. 
SUSAN: (at the top of the wall) Still can't see much. There's not a sign of any people anywhere. 
DOCTOR: Be careful, my child. 
(too late, she falls) 
IAN: Susan. 
BARBARA: I think she's just shaken. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're always dashing about, aren't you. You're far too curious. 
IAN: You're lucky it wasn't any worse. 
SUSAN: My ankle. 
IAN: Look out, this whole thing's going to go! 
(they carry Susan away just as the bridge collapses onto the Tardis) 
DOCTOR: The ship, Chesterton. The ship! Don't go to near, my boy, its not safe. 
IAN: The whole bridge has collapsed. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, it's all crumbling. 
IAN: We're going to need help to shift this. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's going to be very difficult, but remember we're in London. 
IAN: What's that got to do with it? 
DOCTOR: Well, the people, they'll all be curious. They'll want to know why we're trying to break into a police box. 
IAN: Yes. If they don't ask what a police box is doing under a bridge in the first place. 
DOCTOR: Yes, exactly. 
IAN: You know, it's primarily this girder. What I need is an acetylene torch. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear boy, you can't just whisk up men and material out of the thin air now, can you, hmm? 
IAN: There's a warehouse over there, Doctor. I might be able to find a crowbar or something. 
DOCTOR: You know, my dear boy, I never fail to be impressed by your optimism. You can't move that by sheer brute force. You were right, you need a cutting flame. 
IAN: I know one thing for sure, Doctor. We'd better make sure we can get back into the ship before we start looking around, just in case there's trouble. 
DOCTOR: It's intelligent. That's good. But you know, young man, I have a feeling, or call it intuition if you like. I don't believe we're anywhere near your time, the 1960's. IAN: I hope it is only an intuition, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, ask yourself. Here we are, standing by the Thames and we've been here quite a while, how long? Quarter of an hour, twenty minute? 
IAN: Easily, but what about it? 
DOCTOR: Well, what have we heard? Nothing. Precisely nothing. No sound of birdsong, no voices, no sound of shipping, and not even the chimes of old Big Ben. It's uncanny. Uncanny. 
SUSAN: I'm lucky, aren't I? 
BARBARA: There are no bones broken, anyway. 
SUSAN: Thank goodness. I'm sorry about what happened, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Oh, so you're sitting up and taking notice again, are you? 
SUSAN: Don't be angry with me, there's no real harm done was there? I just twisted my ankle. 
DOCTOR: No, no harm done, child. No harm done, no. Do you realise we can't get into the ship? What's all this rubble then? Look at it. 
SUSAN: I didn't pull the bridge down on purpose. 
IAN: The Doctor and I are going to have a look in that warehouse over there. 
BARBARA: Well, can't we all go? 
IAN: Well, how's your ankle, Susan? 
SUSAN: I'll try it. 
(but she can't put her weight on it) 
SUSAN: It's not very good, is it. It's awfully swollen. 
IAN: Well, that settles it then. You need to stay here. 
DOCTOR: We shall be as quick as we can. And you bathe that ankle. What you need is a jolly good smacked bottom! Come on. 
(Ian and the Doctor leave) 
BARBARA: Oh, Susan, it is swollen. Can you twiddle your toes? 
SUSAN: Yes. That's all right. 
BARBARA: You wait here then. I'll go and wet my handkerchief in the river. 
SUSAN: I'm sorry, Barbara.

[Outside the warehouse]

(Crane chains creak in the breeze. It looks very like old Wapping to me. The Doctor and Ian go up an iron staircase) 
DOCTOR: Let's take a snoop. 
IAN: Careful, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: I'm not a half-wit.

[Warehouse]

IAN: Hello, there!

[Riverside]

(Barbara reads the notice, and worries) 
BARBARA: You know, we're not in our time in London, Susan. 
SUSAN: Why do you say that? 
BARBARA: Well, I know London, and it isn't like this. The river's too quiet and there's no sound of traffic. There's a strange poster on the wall back there. It just doesn't make sense. 
SUSAN: Well, off we go again. I'm sorry, Barbara. Is it selfish to want us all to stay together? 
BARBARA: No, of course not. We ought to be able to hear something. It's ridiculous. 
SUSAN: Things have to stay as they are, don't they. Can't change. 
BARBARA: I suppose so. Anyway, maybe they've done away with noise altogether. How's your ankle feeling? 
SUSAN: It's throbbing crazy. 
BARBARA: I don't think this is wet enough. Hold on a minute.

[Warehouse]

(they're being watched) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, come here. 
IAN: Empty. 
DOCTOR: What a musty smell. This place hasn't been used in years. 
IAN: (looking out of the window) Doctor, it's lost two chimneys. 
DOCTOR: What's that monstrosity out there? 
IAN: It's Battersea Power Station. I wonder what's happened to those two chimneys? 
DOCTOR: What's happened to London, dear boy, is more to the point. 
IAN: They must have gone over to nuclear power. 
DOCTOR: What's this, then? 
(the Doctor finds a calendar in a desk drawer) 
DOCTOR: Ah, here, look. At least we know the century, dear boy. Look. 
IAN: 2164.

[Riverside]

(Barbara is soaking her handkerchief again when she sees the body of the suicide float past. She goes back to) 
BARBARA: Susan? Susan! 
(There's the sound of gunfire, and a man jumps down from the wall) 
BARBARA: Who are you? 
Do you want to get killed? 
BARBARA: Where's Susan? What have you done with her? 
You mean the girl? Tyler's got her. Come on, we've got to get out of here. Quick, follow me! 
BARBARA: Wait!

[Warehouse]

(Ian looks up at the sound of gunfire) 
DOCTOR: There's so much rubbish. It's a jungle here. 
(he knocks over a cardboard box, and a man wearing a metal helmet falls out) 
IAN: What the? He's dead. What on earth is this? 
DOCTOR: It looks like some sort of adornment, but what for? 
IAN: I don't know. Do you think it could be some sort of medical aid? You know, if he'd fractured his skull, something to knit the bones together? 
DOCTOR: No, I think there's something more to it than that. You know, I think that this is an extra ear, ideal for picking up high-frequency radio waves. 
IAN: You mean these people have invented some form of personal communication? 
DOCTOR: Yes, something like that. 
IAN: What's this? A whip. Why. 
DOCTOR: Well, whatever it is, I wouldn't like to meet one of these fellows, you know. 
(something creaks, they stand and then see the knife in the back of the dead man) 
DOCTOR: He was murdered! 
(They go looking for the source of the creaking. Ian kicks down a door) 
IAN: Storeroom. That noise came from up here. 
(He kicks in another door, and falls outside. Ian manages to grab hold of an iron framework. The Doctor helps him back up and in) 
DOCTOR: Right, dear boy, come on. 
IAN: No one can get through that way. 
DOCTOR: Except you. I think we'd better pause in this search and get back to the others. Come along. 
IAN: All right, you lead on.

(Barbara follows the man through the overgrown White City Underground station while Tyler gently carries Susan down the steps. Meanwhile, Ian and the Doctor observe a flying saucer)

[Underground]

(Barbara knocks into an oil drum as she catches up with Tyler and Susan) 
SUSAN: Careful, Barbara. 
TYLER: Quickly, now. 
SUSAN: What about Grandfather and my other friend? 
TYLER: We'll do the best we can. 
SUSAN: That's not what you said just now! 
BARBARA: Look, you promised you'd find a way
TYLER: There isn't time to argue. We'll collect your friends later. Now, come on.

[Riverside]

IAN: Barbara? Susan? Why? Why do they do it? 
DOCTOR: It might have been something to do with that gunfire we heard across the river. 
IAN: Yes, I suppose they might have hidden somewhere. 
DOCTOR: Well, let's wait and see, hmm? 
IAN: That body. You know, I want to get away from here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but aren't you even a bit curious? After all, it's your city, you know. Don't you want to know what's happened to it? 
IAN: No. No, I don't want to know. Where the devil are those two?

[Underground]

TYLER: Hold on. 
BARBARA: Is this is? 
TYLER: Yes. (he puts Susan down) Now get back. 
(He presses on a metal panel, a duct moves back) 
DAVID [OC]: Tyler? 
TYLER: Yes. 
DAVID: Dortmun's on the rampage. And who have we got here? 
TYLER: I found a couple of them down by the river. Open targets. 
BARBARA: Well, we didn't know. 
TYLER: I suppose you didn't, but you know now. 
DAVID: Can you cook? 
BARBARA: Yes, I can get by. 
DAVID: Good, we need some cooks. 
BARBARA: Listen, I 
TYLER: All right, let's get down. 
DAVID: Listen, I had a struggle with one of the Robomen. 
TYLER: Well? 
DAVID: Well, he was waiting for me! That means that we'll have to change the storehouse. 
TYLER: All right, tell Dortmun. Have you just come from there? 
DAVID: Yes. 
TYLER: These have got a couple of friends down there they want us to bring back. 
DAVID: Well I didn't see anyone there except that I was nearly caught by a couple... They didn't go into the old warehouse, did they, that's opposite the old power station? 
SUSAN: Yes, I think they did. 
DAVID: Yeah, and I thought they were enemies. 
(a man in a wheelchair enters) 
DORTMUN: Tyler, where have you been? What the devil have you been doing? 
TYLER: They've landed a saucer at the heliport. 
DORTMUN: Saucer? 
TYLER: Yes. 
DORTMUN: Ah, this time we'll be ready for them. 
TYLER: You shouldn't be up here. 
DORTMUN: I'm as active as anybody else. 
TYLER: All right, Dortmun, I know. 
DORTMUN: Two more pairs of hands. Good, we need 
DAVID: She says she can cook. 
DORTMUN: Oh, can you? 
DAVID: And what do you do? 
SUSAN: I eat. 
DAVID: Look, I'll try and find the two friends and bring them back here. 
SUSAN: Thank you. 
DORTMUN: David, where are you going? 
DAVID: Well, there's two more of them down by the warehouse. 
DORTMUN: Men, are they? 
DAVID: Yes. 
DORTMUN: Good. Don't be too long away. I'm going through the attack plans with Tyler as soon as possible. I want you to be there. 
DAVID: Right. 
(David leaves) 
SUSAN: What attack plans? 
DORTMUN: Why are you sitting down? 
SUSAN: I've hurt my ankle. What attack plans? 
DORTMUN: Come along, Tyler, get these people below. That's the way. I'll stay here, on watch. 
(Tyler carries Susan, and Dortmun closes the duct)

[Riverside]

IAN: High tide. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
IAN: High tide. 
DOCTOR: Evening. Look how filthy that water is. 
(Ian sees the poster) 
IAN: Doctor. Doctor, come and have a look at this. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? What? 
IAN: Look. 
DOCTOR: Huh, stupid. 
IAN: Read it, read it. 
DOCTOR: Well, I repeat, it's stupid. A stupid place to put a poster. Right under a bridge where nobody can read it or see it. 
IAN: I don't know. If you have a body to get rid of, I should think it's a very good place to come to. 
DOCTOR: A dead human body in the river? I should say that's near murder, isn't it, hmm? 
IAN: Bring out your dead. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
IAN: Plague?

[Warehouse]

(looking out of a window) 
DAVID: There they are. That must be them. Argh. 
(Two men in a metal helmets are patrolling the warehouse dock frontage. They move slowly and stiffly like automata)

[Riverside]

DOCTOR: It's got me worried, very worried. 
IAN: You know, Doctor, I reckon that flying saucer disappeared somewhere over the other side of the river, in the direction of Sloane Square. Somewhere over there, anyway. 
DOCTOR: Yes, now, never mind about that flying saucer, my boy. That suggestion of yours about the plague. Supposing one of them's been in that water. They're bound to be contaminated with some sort of bacteria! 
IAN: They're not likely to drink that, are they. 
DOCTOR: No, the smell of it's enough. Anyway, let us go further afield. Come along, come along. Now I suggest that you go up that way then I go 
(And they see the men in metal helmets, three of them now with more blocking of their escape route. From his hiding place by the poster, David mutters)
DAVID: Will you still run! 
IAN: It's no use running. 
DOCTOR: We can go back down there, hmm? 
IAN: You mean swim? 
DOCTOR: What else? 
IAN: Hang on, we haven't tried talking yet. What do you want? 
ROBOMEN: Stop. 
IAN: It's no good. Listen. When I give the word, turn and dive in the water. 
(But unbeknownst to Ian, an over-grown pepperpot with a sink-plunger attachment is coming up out of the water) 
IAN: Now! 
(Ian and the Doctor turn and see - )

Episode Two - The Daleks

[Riverside]

DALEK: Why have the human beings been allowed to get so near the river? 
IAN: Doctor, that voice. 
ROBOMAN 2: No explanation. 
DALEK: Where is the Robo-control for this section? 
ROBOMAN 1: Not known. 
DALEK: You will take his place until he is found. The human beings are to be taken to landing area one. 
IAN: Daleks on Earth! Doctor, how did this happen? 
DOCTOR: Leave this to me, dear boy. I think you'd better let us go. 
DALEK: We do not release prisoners. We are the masters of the Earth. 
DOCTOR: Not for long. 
DALEK: Obey us or die. 
DOCTOR: Die? And just who are you to condemn us to death? (sotto) I think we'd better pit our wits against them and defeat them. 
DALEK: Stop. I can hear you. I have heard many similar words from leaders of your different races. All of them were destroyed. I warn you, resistance is useless. 
DOCTOR: Resistance is useless? Surely you don't expect all the people to welcome you with open arms? 
DALEK: We have already conquered Earth. 
DOCTOR: Conquered the Earth? You poor, pathetic creatures. Don't you realise? Before you attempt to conquer the Earth, you will have to destroy all living matter. 
DALEK: Take them. Take them. 
(Ian and the Doctor are manhandled away) 
DALEK: We are the masters of Earth. We are the masters of Earth. We are the masters of Earth.

[Underground HQ]

DALEK [on radio]: Survivors of London, the Daleks are the masters of Earth. Surrender now and you will live. Those wishing to surrender must stand in the middle of the street, and obey orders received. Message ends. 
DORTMUN: Obey motorised dustbins? We'll see. Tyler, I want a word with you. 
TYLER: Jenny, see if you can find them some food, will you, and look after her ankle. 
JENNY: All right. 
TYLER: You'll keep your eyes open for David Campbell. He'll be back soon with news of your friends. 
JENNY: Any messages from any other survivors? 
MAN 2: No. The Africa group have faded out completely. 
JENNY: Who's the one with the bad foot? 
SUSAN: Me. 
JENNY: Well, let's have a look then. 
(She takes Susan's shoe off and flexes her foot) 
SUSAN: Ow! 
JENNY: Hmm. There are no bones broken. Why didn't you put a wet bandage on it? 
BARBARA: We've only just arrived. 
JENNY: I see. Well, I'll see to this. You get the food. What are you waiting for? 
BARBARA: Well, where do I get the food? 
JENNY: Oh, over there. And while you're at it, sign both your names down for a work detail. 
BARBARA: Susan can't work until her ankle's better. 
JENNY: She can do something with her hands, sitting at a table, can't she?

[Dortmun's room]

(The two men are looking at maps) 
DORTMUN: But look, look there. We must attack them, Tyler. 
TYLER: That sounds fine, but how? We can find fifteen, perhaps twenty men. 
DORTMUN: Ample. 
TYLER: Oh what are you talking about, ample. A handful of unarmed men against Daleks? 
DORTMUN: Sometimes I wonder about you, Tyler. 
TYLER: This isn't the twentieth century. Dortmun, when thousands of men with bayonets charged machine guns. 
DORTMUN: Don't lecture me. 
TYLER: Then don't ask the impossible. You've not been out there for ages. It would be suicide. 
DORTMUN: Oh, yes, all right, I know. I'm in this wheelchair so I can't go myself. 
TYLER: I didn't mean that. You know I didn't mean that. The new bomb? 
(A classic round design with a fuse out of the top) 
DORTMUN: Yes, it's finished. 
TYLER: You haven't had it tested, I suppose? 
DORTMUN: Tested? Don't be a fool, it doesn't need testing. It's all there in my formula. It's perfect. I tell you, this bomb will destroy the Daleks. I know it will work.

[Underground HQ]

DAVID: Apples. There are apples there for everyone. Jenny, you should be filling three of these.

[Dortmun's room]

DORTMUN: You've been down here so long that you're beginning to think like worms. 
TYLER: We must have some chance of success. 
DAVID: Campbell reporting in. 
DORTMUN: Good. Tyler and I have been having a preliminary chat about the next attack. We'll be out soon. 
DAVID: Well I've brought a box of apples. Incidentally, that department store's got plenty of stuff in it. 
DORTMUN: Oh, right. 
TYLER: And what about the two men? 
DAVID: When I got down to the embankment I saw them being taken away, but I couldn't do anything. 
DORTMUN: Oh, that's bad, that's very bad. We could have done with those two men. 
DAVID: I'll tell the two women. 
TYLER: Where were the men taken? Any idea? 
DAVID: From the direction they went, I think the Daleks have taken them the saucer they landed at the heliport in Chelsea.

[Outside the saucer]

IAN: Doctor, I don't understand this at all. We saw the Daleks destroyed on Skaro. We were there. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, what in Skaro was a million years ahead of us in the future. What we're seeing now is about the middle history of the Daleks. 
IAN: I see. They certainly look different, don't they. 
DOCTOR: Look, they've taken some more prisoners. What is so different about the Daleks? Oh, I see. You mean the discs on their backs. 
IAN: Yes. Perhaps that accounts for their increased mobility. Do you remember, on Skaro they could only move on metal. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, quite so. But remember, this is an invasion force, therefore they have to adapt themselves to the planet. 
DALEK: Where are the other two from your patrol? 
ROBOMAN: This man killed them both. 
DALEK: For this you will be punished. Continue your patrol. The prisoners will fall in line. 
CRADDOCK: There'll be no escape once they get us inside there. 
MAN 3: They're not getting me. I'm going to try something. You with me? 
CRADDOCK: Don't be a fool mate, you haven't got a chance. 
MAN 3: They're not getting me back in that filthy mine. 
DALEK 2: The prisoners will remain silent. 
ROBOMAN: Forward. 
(As the humans are herded up the ramp, the young man tries to break away, but a Dalek gets in his way. He circles round, and the Daleks gather. One has a black top and black side panels - and a very high-pitched voice) 
IAN: Don't be a fool. You can't help him now. 
MAN 3: Help me! 
BLACK: Kill him. 
(So they do) 
BLACK: Any further resistance will be dealt with in the same way. 
DALEK: The prisoners will proceed into the ship.

[Underground HQ]

(Susan hold the rifle steady while David cleans it) 
DAVID: No, Susan, I don't think we should tell Barbara. 
SUSAN: But David, I think we should. 
DAVID: Now listen, Susan. We're going to make an attack on that saucer, so we'll put off telling her until afterwards. 
SUSAN: You mean if the attack's successful, we'll find Ian and my grandfather anyway. 
DAVID: Yes. And if it isn't, well then, they've just disappeared. 
SUSAN: All right. 
JENNY: You wanted to see these. 
DAVID: Oh, yes. 
JENNY: Well here you are then, take them. I've got better things to do. 
(Hands over Robo-helmets) 
DAVID: Oh, you're a model of charm and patience, aren't you. 
JENNY: Well, I don't believe in wasting time and I don't believe in sentiment either. 
BARBARA: (with apples) They asked me to give these out, Jenny. 
JENNY: Oh, just put it down there. 
BARBARA: Dessert. 
SUSAN: Thank you. 
DAVID: Thank you, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Oh, what are these things? 
SUSAN: Oh they're the Dalek's invention. They're called Robomen. 
DAVID: No, Susan, I told you. You've got it wrong. We took these from dead human beings. 
JENNY: There aren't that many Daleks on Earth. They needed helpers so they operated on some of their prisoners and turned them into robots. 
BARBARA: I see. 
DAVID: The transfer, as the Daleks call the operation, controls the human brain, well at least for a time. 
SUSAN: What happens then? 
BARBARA: Do they revert and become human again? 
JENNY: No. They die. 
DAVID: I've seen the Robos when they break down. They go insane. They smash their heads against walls, they throw themselves off buildings or into the river. 
BARBARA: The river? That's what it was. Daleks. Everything they touch turns into a horrible sort of nightmare. 
SUSAN: Are they still doing these transfer operations, David? 
JENNY: Oh, yes. They keep up their numbers of Robomen. They got my brother last year. That's another reason why they saucers at the heliport. That's where the Daleks take the prisoners and operate on them. Once they've got you on board a saucer, there isn't a hope.

[Control centre]

DOCTOR: Yes, the work of a genius, dear boy. 
IAN: Yes, pretty impressive. And absolutely escape-proof. 
DOCTOR: Only on the surface, my friends. 
ROBOMAN: Move. 
DALEK: Halt. You will move one by one slowly into the prison cell. 
ROBOMAN: Move. 
(The Doctor goes another way) 
DALEK: You. Reverse and move. 
(The Doctor rejoins Ian and the man and they get locked in) 
BLACK: Is that the one? 
DALEK 2: Yes. He spoke of resistance. 
BLACK: His words betray greater intelligence than normal in human beings. 
DALEK 3: Give them the test.

[Prison cell]

DOCTOR: I had a good look into that corridor. Did you notice the television eyes round about? 
IAN: Yes, I did. There aren't any in here. 
DOCTOR: No. 
IAN: I'll tell you what I did see, Doctor. What I took to be a loading bay door. Of course, it could be guarded outside. 
CRADDOCK: It will be. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Nevertheless, it has possibilities. 
CRADDOCK: What for? You can't get the door open. There's no escape, I tell you. 
DOCTOR: My young friend, don't be so pessimistic. What is your name, by the way? 
CRADDOCK: Craddock, Jack Craddock. 
DOCTOR: Well, Mister Jack Craddock, don't be such a defeatist. Our job is to try and get out of here, and quickly. 
CRADDOCK: You're just fooling yourselves. You don't know the Daleks. Once they've got you inside a saucer, you're finished. 
IAN: Craddock, tell us, how did it happen, the invasion of Earth? Everything. 
CRADDOCK: Have you been on a moon station or something? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. 
IAN: Yes. 
CRADDOCK: Well, meteorites came first. The Earth was bombarded with them about ten years ago. A cosmic storm, the scientists called it. The meteorites stopped, everything settled down, and then people began to die of this new kind of plague. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that explains your poster, dear boy. Germ bombs, hmm? 
CRADDOCK: Yes. The Daleks were up in the sky just waiting for Earth to get weaker. Whole continents of people were wiped out. Asia, Africa, South America. They used to say the Earth had a smell of death about it. 
IAN: Why, Craddock? What were the doctors and the scientists doing about it? 
CRADDOCK: Oh, well, they came up with some new kind of drug but it was too late then. 
IAN: Why?

[Underground HQ]

SUSAN: What happened next? 
DAVID: Well, the plague had split the world into tiny little communities, too far apart to combine and fight, and too small individually to stand any chance against invasion. 
BARBARA: Divide and conquer. 
DAVID: Hmm. About six months after the meteorite fall, that's when the saucers landed. Cities were razed to the ground, others were simply occupied. Anyone who resisted was destroyed. Some people were captured and were turned into Robomen, the slaves of the Daleks. They caught other human beings and many of them were shipped to the vast mining areas. No one escapes. The Robomen see to that.

[Prison cell]

CRADDOCK: They were our own people, made to work against us, and the Daleks knew that, knew how they'd humiliated and degraded us. They are the masters of Earth. 
IAN: But why, Craddock? That's the one thing you haven't told us. What is it that the Daleks want on Earth? 
CRADDOCK: I don't know. Something under the ground. They've turned the whole of Bedfordshire into a gigantic mine area. 
IAN: Why? What are they digging for? 
CRADDOCK: I don't know. 
DOCTOR: Suppose we forget all this blab about Bedfordshire. Have either of you seen this?

[Control centre]

DALEK: All radio waves bands are open. 
BLACK: Rebels of London, this is our last offer. Our final warning. Leave your hiding places. Show yourselves in the open streets. You will be fed and watered. Work is needed from you but the Daleks offer you life.

[Underground HQ]

BLACK [OC]: Rebel against us and the Daleks will destroy London completely. You will all die, the males, the females and descendants. Rebels of London, come out of your hiding places. The Daleks offer you life. 
DORTMUN: Come out of your hiding places. We'll come out of our hiding place with this! (the bomb) This bomb will shatter the casing of the Daleks. We don't need to run or hide any more. We'll make them run. 
JENNY: At last we've got a weapon. 
ALL: He's done it. 
DORTMUN: Listen carefully. They've issued an ultimatum. We'll give our answer tonight. Tyler and I both agree that the best place for an attack is the heliport where they land the flying saucers. 
JENNY: A frontal attack? 
TYLER: Yes, a frontal attack. 
DORTMUN: Of course, we have the superior weapon now. One success will give our people hope again. One victory will set this country, the whole of Europe, alight. That's all we need, one victory. 
(Cheers) 
JENNY: At the heliport, how do we get within throwing range? 
TYLER: The heliport's fringed with buildings. We're covered right up to the perimeter. 
BAKER: The Daleks can fire at us long before we can use the bomb. 
DORTMUN: It'll be a surprise attack. 
BAKER: As soon as the first bomb is thrown, surprise is over and we shall be penned in the buildings, remember. 
TYLER: All right, Baker, we know we'll have to get closer. 
BARBARA: I know. 
DORTMUN: Who was that? Well? 
BARBARA: We could get right into the middle of the Daleks without them suspecting anything if we use this. 
TYLER: How? 
BARBARA: Some of your men could disguise themselves as Robomen. They could pretend to be escorting a batch of prisoners to the saucer, or something. 
TYLER: It'll work. 
DORTMUN: Yes, it'll work. We'll attack the saucer in one hour from now.

[Prison cell]

DOCTOR: What is that you've got there? 
CRADDOCK: A magnifying glass. I just picked it up. 
IAN: Hey, Doctor, come and look at this. Look. What do you make of this? 
CRADDOCK: I wouldn't touch it. 
(It is a block of perspex with seven vertical tubes cut into it and a piece of metal in the middle) 
DOCTOR: Hmm. Let me have that bar up there for a moment, will you? 
IAN: Is it glass or something? 
DOCTOR: I should say it was more advanced than that. Well now, let's try a little experiment. 
IAN: All right. 
(As the Doctor holds the bar above the block, the metal piece inside moves along) 
IAN: Hey! 
DOCTOR: You see? It responds. Magnetised. 
CRADDOCK: A profound discover, mister. Doesn't help us. 
IAN: Why did the Daleks put it there in the first place? 
DOCTOR: Now that's a very good question, dear boy. Suppose you were a Dalek and you found yourself locked up in this room. How would you get out? 
CRADDOCK: Push the door open? 
DOCTOR: My dear young man, the Daleks have only feelers, no hands, and they use their brains, not brute force. 
IAN: You mean this is some sort of a key? 
DOCTOR: Now that's the very word. A key in a crystal box. You open the box, take out the key and use it. That is precisely what the Dalek would do. 
IAN: Yes, but what are we going to do, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Look at that little light up there. 
IAN: Yes, I see. And the box is transparent. 
DOCTOR: Quite. Let me have that thing, will you? 
CRADDOCK: What, this? 
DOCTOR: Yes, that. Thank you. 
(He holds the magnifying glass above the box) 
DOCTOR: Now, we have to make sure that we hit the correct refractive, otherwise we shall get showered with crystal glass. 
CRADDOCK: Refractive rubbish! The Daleks don't leave things like this about for you to help yourselves. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, if they had to deal with a man of your talents, they need hardly fear, need they. Now do sit down and rest, please. Oh, dear, now where were we? Ah, yes, of course, yes, yes, yes. Now, X equals gamma, that means roughly two and a half percent, so that should give us a curve of around about eighty degrees. Oh by the way, did you take three dimensional graph geometry at your school, hmm? 
IAN: No, Doctor, only Boyle's Law. 
DOCTOR: What a pity. What a pity. We shall have to boil this down now, shan't we. Well, now then, let's see. We'll start third from the left and then I'll follow it from the right and straight over. All right? Now put that bar there, and watch your eyes because you know, it might be nasty. Are you ready? 
(Ian holds the metal bar at the end of the box, where there is a hole) 
CRADDOCK: And a great big pumpkin too. 
(Then the metal shoots out of the box) 
IAN: Hey, look at that. 
DOCTOR: Hold that and shut up, will you. Pay attention. Let me have the bar, please. 
IAN: You know, Doctor, sometimes you astound me. 
DOCTOR: Only sometimes, dear boy? What's happened to your memory? Don't you remember we know that the Daleks can use static electricity? 
IAN: Of course. 
CRADDOCK: Hey, how do you know so much about them, the Daleks I mean. 
IAN: We met them once before. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and we happened to outwit them, too. Please go away, will you? Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear. Now, all we have to do is to slide this bar back here, and the self-same bar slides back into place here through electricity. 
IAN: And it's held in place by magnetic force. 
DOCTOR: Precisely. Now I want you to give him a hand in a minute. Just turn that pole under there, will you. There, you see? 
IAN: I see what you mean. Like poles repel, eh? 
DOCTOR: Yes, precisely. Now we've created a force field. Right, now turn the pole round. Give him a hand, quickly. Come on. 
(It takes both men to handle the metal bar now) 
DOCTOR: Come on. 
(And the cell door opens) 
IAN: You're a genius. 
DOCTOR: Yes, there are very few of us left. Now, let's get out, and be crafty.

[Control room]

(They are immediately surrounded by Daleks and Robomen) 
DALEKS: You have passed the escape test we set you. Take him. 
DOCTOR: Let go of me! Take your hands off me! 
(Ian and Craddock are pushed back into the cell) 
DALEK: He will be robotised.

[Building opposite the saucer]

DAVID: There they are. 
SUSAN: Now what do we do? 
DAVID: Well, as soon as Tyler's attack group arrives, we start throwing these.

[Saucer]

(Two Robomen are manhandling the Doctor) 
DALEK: Our prisoner will move to the table. 
DALEK 2: Take off his coat. 
(they do so) 
DALEK 2: Anaesthetize him. 
DOCTOR: No, no, please, what are you doing? No. Let me go now. Let me go!

[Building opposite the saucer]

(Tyler and the men enter the heliport, disguised as Robomen with their prisoners) 
DAVID: Stand by.

[Outside the saucer]

DALEK: Take the prisoners into the ship. Wait. In which sector were these prisoners taken? 
BAKER: Sector four. 
DALEK: No patrol has been ordered in sector four.

[Building opposite the saucer]

DAVID: Now! 
(They throw the little bombs)

[Outside the saucer]

DALEK: Warning! 
DALEK 2: Attack! 
DALEK: Warning! 
DALEK 2: Attack! 
DALEK: Get the prisoners inside.

[Building opposite the saucer]

DAVID: Get down. 
(There's the sound of Dalek weaponry) 
DAVID: All right, lets get a move on.

[Outside the saucer]

DALEK: Section five move forward. Seal off the area.

[Saucer]

TYLER: Right, now spread out, and try and free the prisoner before you use those bombs. 
(The resistance scatter, Tyler pulls a revolver and walks past the back of the table where the Doctor is lying) 
DALEK [OC]: We are under attack. Report to main ramp. General alert. Report to main ramp. 
(The Roboman starts to obey) 
BLACK: Disregard. Commence the operation.

Episode Three - Day of Reckoning

[Saucer]

(The disguised Baker waits until the Roboman's back is turned, then rips his fake helmet off and jumps him. The Roboman throws him, but Tyler stabs the Roboman in the back) 
TYLER: Get that man off there. 
BAKER: He's unconscious. 
TYLER: Well, bring him round. Hurry. 
DALEK [OC]: All Robomen reserve into action. Destroy invaders. 
BAKER: We must get out of here. 
TYLER: Carry him. 
(The other resistance fighters are freeing prisoners and wrecking the place) 
TYLER: Come on, get out. All right, now, let's go. Use the bombs.

[Outside the Saucer]

DAVID: Jenny! Jenny, over here. Jenny, look, take them back. I'm going to try and get Tyler out of there. 
JENNY: Not on your own. 
DAVID: Take them back. 
JENNY: Well, come on, you know who is in there. 
SUSAN: Shut up, Jenny! 
JENNY: Your two friends. 
BARBARA: Did you know this? 
SUSAN: Yes, I was there. Barbara! Where are you going? 
BARBARA: I'm going to help Tyler get them out. 
SUSAN: Barbara, what are you going to do? 
BARBARA: I don't know. Let go of me! 
JENNY: Susan, this way. Come on. 
(The resistance fighters and prisoners come down the ramp, throwing their bombs. Some grab Daleks and topple them over, but they get shot by other Daleks. Baker brings up the rear, carrying the Doctor. Tyler and David escape, then Ian runs out just as Barbara is about to throw a bomb.) 
IAN: Barbara! Get back! Get back! 
(She throws her bomb, Ian ducks back inside as the Black Dalek comes past and a Roboman goes down the ramp.) 
TYLER: Clear out! Let's go! 
DALEK: They are retreating. Take prisoners where possible. Do not kill. 
DALEK 2: All exits to the square are blocked.

[Building opposite Saucer]

TYLER: No, over here! 
(a man runs to join going down a drain, but gets shot)

[Saucer]

BLACK: Has the attack been defeated? 
DALEK: Yes. Most of the rebels were killed or wounded. 
BLACK: Find every survivor. Destroy every one. Destroy them! Destroy every one of them! Destroy! 
(Ian overhears this from his hiding place)

[Underground HQ]

(Susan rushes away, crying. Tyler enters) 
BARBARA: Tyler. 
JENNY: No, not now. 
BARBARA: Tyler! 
JENNY: No, no, no. 
TYLER: Your bombs were useless, Dortmun. 
DORTMUN: How many men were killed? 
TYLER: We hadn't a chance. 
DORTMUN: How many? 
TYLER: I don't know. I think all of them. 
BARBARA: The Doctor and Ian, they were in that saucer. 
TYLER: Yes, well, there was an oldish man there. I nearly got him out. 
BARBARA: Nearly? 
TYLER: We got separated. We'll have to get out of London. 
DORTMUN: What for? The Daleks will never look for us down here. 
TYLER: They'll look everywhere now. They'll search every inch, they'll destroy every inch. We've made an attack on one of their machines. Your show of force. 
DORTMUN: I must stay here and work on the bomb. It only needs work, Tyler. 
TYLER: It's a waste of time. 
DORTMUN: It's the only answer. 
TYLER: Who's going to use it for you? Me? One man? These two? Use your intelligence. 
JENNY: Tyler's right. London's going to be much too hot for us. 
BARBARA: But we can't leave now. What if Susan comes back looking for us? 
JENNY: We have a code system, letting people know where headquarters are moved. 
BARBARA: But Susan doesn't know the code! 
DORTMUN: Tyler, would you consider hanging on here for a short while longer? Just a few days. 
TYLER: No, Dortmun, it's no use. I only came back here to warn you. I'm going out to see if I can find any more survivors from that raid, then I'm going north. 
BARBARA: I'm coming with you. 
TYLER: No, I want to move about on my own. 
BARBARA: But you can't travel as you are. Look, your shoulder's still bleeding. 
TYLER: I'll be all right. Good luck. 
BARBARA: If you see any of my friends 
(But Tyler is gone) 
JENNY: It's no use. He won't come with us. We'll have to go without him. 
DORTMUN: There is the other place. People will be gathering there. There'll be supplies, instruments. I shall be able to work on my bombs. 
JENNY: Don't build on it. 
DORTMUN: Yes, we'll go to the museum. I'll get my things together. It'll mean going over one of the bridges and across London. 
BARBARA: I know. We'll go with you. 
JENNY: We'd have much more chance on our own. 
BARBARA: Well, he wouldn't have had any without us. You needn't stay if you don't want to. 
JENNY: Well, Dortmun may be right. People may start collecting at the Civic Transport Museum. 
DORTMUN: We'd better get going. It'll just be getting light. 
BARBARA: Do you think we will find my friends there? 
DORTMUN: Yes, yes, it's a possibility.

[Saucer]

BLACK: Supreme Command have given orders for London to be destroyed by firebombs. 
DALEK: Do you intend to stay here in the city? 
BLACK: No. Order the saucer to take me to the mine workings in central England. 
DALEK 2: Five, four, three, two, one. Lift off. 
(Ian comes out of his hiding place near the operating table just as a Roboman is bringing another prisoner along) 
IAN: Craddock! 
CRADDOCK: You are to be robotised. 
(Ian does a very tidy hip throw) 
CRADDOCK: Robotised. Robotised. Robotised. Robotised. 
(His putative prisoner disconnects him from his helmet and he falls against the machine which shorts him out) 
IAN: Thanks. 
LARRY: Thank you. I was hiding in the storeroom when he found me. I smuggled myself aboard. 
IAN: You did what? 
LARRY: The saucer's going to the mine workings in Bedfordshire and my brother's there. I'm going to find him. 
IAN: You don't exactly choose the easiest or the safest way to travel, do you. 
LARRY: It's the quickest. Where have you been hiding? 
IAN: In the ramp housing, under there. What are we going to do with him? 
LARRY: Most of these large rooms have what they call disposal chutes. 
IAN: That? 
LARRY: Yeah. Come on, I'll give you a hand. 
IAN: We'd better get his feet first. 
LARRY: Right. 
(And they slide Craddock into the chute) 
DALEK [OC]: Break on seventy two. Break on seventy two. Report zero five five Roboman. Fault. 
(Ian and Larry go back into Ian's hiding place)

[Warehouse]

(David and Susan are running from a Dalek through a derelict building) 
DAVID: Look. Careful. Behind that bush. 
(The Dalek stops near them, then leaves again) 
DAVID: They've gone. We'll give them a few minutes to get well clear, and then we'll move on. 
SUSAN: Where to? 
DAVID: I don't know. What we must do is we must try and find some other survivors. 
SUSAN: David, David, do you think 
DALEK [OC]: Stop! Stop! Stop! 
MAN [OC]: Why? 
DALEK [OC]: Stop! 
MAN [OC]: Why? You killed my mother and my brothers! 
DALEK [OC]: Stop! 
MAN [OC]: Get away from me! No! 
(We hear the Daleks kill him) 
SUSAN: If only we could go to the ship and get away from here. 
DAVID: Well, I couldn't go anyway. 
SUSAN: David, David, perhaps you could. I could ask Grandfather. I'm sure he'd let you come. We could go to a place that had never even heard of Daleks. 
DAVID: And what happens if there's something unpleasant in the new place? 
SUSAN: We'll move on somewhere. 
DAVID: No, Susan, that's not for me. 
SUSAN: Why not? 
DAVID: Look, things aren't made better by running away. 
SUSAN: Well, it's suicide to stay here. 
DAVID: This is my planet! I just can't run off and see what it's like on Venus! 
SUSAN: I never felt there was any time or place that I belonged to. I've never had any real identity. 
DAVID: One day you will. There will come a time when you're forced to stop travelling, and you'll arrive somewhere. 
(A noise, off) 
DAVID: Back over there. 
SUSAN: Daleks? 
DAVID: I don't know. It could be the Robomen. 
SUSAN: It's coming closer. 
DAVID: They're coming down here. 
(he gets out his knife) 
SUSAN: David, no. 
DAVID: Now, look, just get in there and stay there. 
(Susan hides, David goes up to see what is happening) 
BAKER: David! 
DAVID: Baker! 
BAKER: I saw you heading his way so I followed you. 
DAVID: Are you all right? 
BAKER: Yes. It's him I'm worried about. 
(He's still carrying the unconscious Doctor) 
DAVID: Well, look, we're down here. I'll give you a hand. 
SUSAN: Grandfather! What is it? Is he all right? He's not too badly hurt, is he? 
BAKER: The Daleks drugged him. 
DOCTOR: Susan. 
BAKER: It's beginning to wear off. 
DAVID: Put him down here. What about the others? 
BAKER: Four or five got away. The rest dead or prisoners. 
DAVID: Well, what are you going to do then? Do you want to stay here with us? 
BAKER: A large group won't stand a chance. I thought I'd try on my own. I'll make for the Cornish coast. It's deserted down there. Not much for the Daleks. 
DAVID: It's a good idea. 
SUSAN: We must stay in London. 
BAKER: Well I must be on my way. 
DAVID: Look, Baker, here, take this hip flask. It's full. 
BAKER: No, it's all right. 
DAVID: Look, go on, man, take it. There's tons of food in London. You'll need all you can get where you're going. 
BAKER: All right then, thanks. Good luck to you all. I hope you find your friends. 
SUSAN: Be careful. Thank you. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye, my friend. Goodbye. 
(Baker goes off, straight into a pair of Daleks) 
DALEK: Fire. 
(The Daleks kill Baker)

(We see Barbara and Jenny wheeling Dortmun along a deserted Thames Embankment, and helping him with the steps. They duck down as Daleks trundle along Westminster Bridge. Another is patrolling across the river from the Houses of Parliament. They sprint up Whitehall to Trafalgar Square where the pigeons don't mind the Daleks at all. There are Daleks at the Albert Memorial too)

[Museum]

BARBARA: How's it coming? 
DORTMUN: It's finished. The problem, you see, was the metal that the Daleks use in their outer casing. We don't know very much about it. We call it dalekenium. 
BARBARA: Maybe that's what they're mining for up in Bedfordshire. 
DORTMUN: Oh, no, no, no, no. The Daleks must have found dalekenium before they came to Earth. 
BARBARA: What are they mining for then? 
DORTMUN: I don't know, but it must be something that's only found very deep in our planet. 
(Jenny enters) 
JENNY: Not a sign of anybody. The Daleks have been here, and some of us. 
BARBARA: How do you know? 
JENNY: Well, look at these signs. (Vetoed, they all say) This means that some of our people have moved off to the south coast, and I don't blame them. The place is swarming with Daleks. 
DORTMUN: Do you think another force has landed in London? 
JENNY: Yes, I do. We were very lucky to get through the streets. 
DORTMUN: Yes. 
JENNY: We haven't got a chance in London, the way things are building up. 
BARBARA: Well, what can we do? Where can we go? Anyway, what's the point in running away all the time? 
JENNY: I'm not running, I'm surviving, that's all. 
DORTMUN: You'll survive, all right. I've got the new formula. 
BARBARA: Oh, I wish the Doctor were here. 
DORTMUN: So do I. 
BARBARA: But you don't know him. 
DORTMUN: He's a man of science, you said. 
BARBARA: He is. He's a very brilliant one. There's no sugar, I'm afraid. 
DORTMUN: I should like to show the results of my experiments to another scientist. Where do you think he is? 
BARBARA: Well, I've been trying to put myself in his place. I'm almost certain he'd head for that mine. 
JENNY: If he's alive. 
BARBARA: Well of course he's alive. 
JENNY: Why? What's so special about the Doctor? He doesn't wear some sort of invisible shield, does he? 
DORTMUN: Jenny, go outside and keep watch. 
(Jenny leaves) 
DORTMUN: She's not callous really, you know. When people fight, they have to fight the Daleks in their own way. Barbara, I should like you to find your friend the Doctor, and give him my notes. 
BARBARA: But I thought you said you'd finished the bomb. 
DORTMUN: I have. 
BARBARA: Well, then, why can't you give it to him yourself? 
DORTMUN: I can, I can. But, well, I'd like you to take care of them for me if you will. I'm not exactly mobile in this thing, am I. 
BARBARA: I'm not leaving you. 
DORTMUN: Very well. Let's make for the mine in Bedford. 
BARBARA: We'll all be safer once we get away from the city. 
DORTMUN: Just round up Jenny and we can make a start. 
(Barbara leaves. Dortmun gathers up his walking sticks, and the box containing his bomb. He places his notebook on the mug on the table and wheels himself out by another exit) 
JENNY: Daleks are all over the place. We're besieged. 
BARBARA: Dortmun! 
JENNY: Shh. Keep your voice down. 
BARBARA: He couldn't have gone outside. 
JENNY: He wouldn't be so stupid. 
BARBARA: He's left his notes. Jenny, he's going to try it out for himself! 
DORTMUN [OC]: Daleks! 
(Outside, Dortmun levers himself up out of his wheelchair, and takes aim with his bomb just as the Daleks kill him. It makes a loud bang but does no other damage) 
BARBARA: Come on, we must get away from them. Jenny! Jenny, come on! 
(The women hide behind a milk float as the Dalek talks to a tailor's dummy) 
DALEK: Who are you? Subcultural.

[Warehouse]

(The Doctor is trying to find his feet again) 
SUSAN: Take it easy. 
DOCTOR: This is a time I should have my stick. 
SUSAN: Yes, I'll have to try and find you one. 
(He sits down) 
SUSAN: There you are. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I think that's quite enough to start with. You know, I never realised that walking was so difficult, so exhausting. 
SUSAN: How's the numbness? Is it wearing off? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think it is. 
SUSAN: Oh, good. 
DOCTOR: In quite a while, I might be able to travel. 
SUSAN: That's good. David says we should head for the north. There's a resistance group up there. He says we should join up with them. 
DOCTOR: I don't care what that young man says. I make the decisions here, my dear, and I think we should make our way back to the Tardis. 
SUSAN: What's the good of that, Grandfather? We need someone to help us blast all that rubble. Besides, London's crawling with Daleks. We must go north. 
DOCTOR: Do you question my authority, child? 
SUSAN: No, Grandfather, it's not that at all. It's just that David says 
DOCTOR: You seem to place more reliance on that young man's word than mine, don't you. 
SUSAN: Oh, Grandfather, it's not that. It's simply that he lives in this time. He understands the situation. 
(David comes rushing in) 
DAVID: I've been down as far as the river, but they've got patrols on every bridge. 
SUSAN: So what's our next move? 
DAVID: Oh, I don't know. What would you suggest, sir? 
DOCTOR: Ah. Hmm. Me? 
DAVID: Well, you're the senior member of the party, sir, and I would be grateful for you help. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, er, yes, yes, of course, young man. Yes, well, I suggest that as soon as I'm able to walk again, we should travel north. Then we might be able to join up with the resistance party. Mark you, it's only a suggestion. I really should leave it to you, you know. Think it out for yourself. 
SUSAN: It's a very good idea, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: What? 
SUSAN: I said, it's a very good idea. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think it's a very good idea.

[Saucer]

(Ian and Larry are in the hiding place) 
LARRY: My brother Phil's working at the mine, and he said if we can find out what the Daleks are up to, we might be able to beat them. 
IAN: Makes sense, doesn't it. 
LARRY: His theory is that the Daleks want the magnetic core of Earth. 
IAN: What? 
LARRY: That's his idea, anyway. 
BLACK: Lower ramp and disembark. 
IAN: We're not still 
LARRY: Yes, we've landed. 
IAN: What's that? 
LARRY: They're lowering the ramp. 
(The Daleks trundle off, followed by the zombie Robomen and some prisoners) 
LARRY: All clear. This is it. 
(They climb up into the saucer proper) 
IAN: All right. How do we get out of this place? 
LARRY: The disposal chute. Once we get through the outer door, make for the nearest cover. It's our only chance. 
IAN: All right. I say, what is out there? 
LARRY: Your guess is as good as mine. I'll go first.

[Warehouse]

(Two Robomen are carrying a device between them) 
DOCTOR: I think we should get on our way. 
SUSAN: Grandfather, I think we should stay a bit longer, don't you? Because David looked just now and there were loads of Daleks. 
DAVID: Maybe Susan's right. Perhaps we should wait just five minutes more? 
(The Robomen put the device down quite close to their hiding place, then it starts ticking)

Episode Four - The End of Tomorrow

[Warehouse]

DOCTOR: Shh. 
SUSAN: David, over there, look. 
DAVID: It's one of their firebombs. The Robomen must have put it there. 
(The Doctor collapses) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! David, he's passed out. 
DAVID: It must be the effect of those drugs. 
(Susan joins David at the bomb) 
SUSAN: He's out of sight. David, what about this bomb? Can you dismantle it? I only know about atomic devices. 
DAVID: I don't know. I'll have to try. 
SUSAN: What's this red mark here? 
DAVID It's an ignition point, I think. 
SUSAN: So when the needle touches the red point? 
DAVID: That will be it. I'll have to take a chance. I'm going to try and prise the front off this thing. 
(But his knife slips and cuts him) 
SUSAN: David! Come on, let's run for it. 
DAVID: Dortmun's bombs! The acid will burn its way through the casing. 
SUSAN: It's our last chance. Look at the needle. 
DAVID: Well get well back, Susan. Go on, back. 
(He pours the acid onto the casing, which dissolves immediately, but the ticking continues) 
SUSAN: It's burning through. 
(David pushes the timer out from the inside and the ticking stops but the bomb does not explode) 
SUSAN: Oh, you did it! 
DAVID: Well, what do we do now? That's the point. We'll have to leave the old man here for a while. 
SUSAN: Leave him? 
DAVID: But we must. He can't travel, can he. What we'll do is this. We'll tell him to hide, and then you and I'll find a way out of London. What we'll do is go through the sewers. There's got to be a manhole cover around here somewhere. 
SUSAN: I don't like the idea of leaving him. 
DAVID: We'll come back for him. Look, the Daleks think this area's in flames, so he'll be safe for an hour. 
SUSAN: David, we can't! 
DAVID: It's the only way.

[Museum]

(Barbara is using a foot pump to inflate a tyre on a tanker) 
JENNY: All right, I'll take a turn. 
BARBARA: How's the engine look? 
JENNY: Well, there's oil in it, and the fuel's coming through. The trouble's going to be when we try to start it. The noise'll bring every Dalek for miles. 
BARBARA: Well, that's a risk we'll have to take. 
JENNY: Yes, I know that. 
BARBARA: I suppose they used this in parades and exhibitions. 
JENNY: Yes. Most of the machines at the museum are operational. 
BARBARA: It's a pity all the motor cars are on the upper floors. 
JENNY: You realise we won't get far in this. 
BARBARA: Probably. 
JENNY: No probably about it. Do you know the route to Bedfordshire? 
BARBARA: Yes, I used to. 
JENNY: Used to? What does that mean? 
BARBARA: It means I used to live. Well, we're not very sure how much damage the Daleks have done. 
JENNY: You wait till you see what they've done to Bedfordshire.

[Bedfordshire mining area]

(Next to an enormous 7SO Earth Mover, there is the sound of drilling) 
IAN: I don't know how you're going to find your brother here, Larry. 
LARRY: I'll have a darned good try. 
IAN: Even if you do find him, what are you going to do for him? 
LARRY: Get him away. He's obsessed with whatever it is the Daleks are doing. Look! 
(A team of slaves are hauling a railway truck along the track to the mine) 
ROBOMAN: Forward! Forward! 
(Cablecars carry rock back and forth across the massive open-cast pit) 
DALEK [OC]: Report Beta section zero zero one. Parade for robotisation selection at hut thirty. End. 
IAN: We'd better get back under cover. 
LARRY: This thing could move at 
WELLS: (proper yokel) Hoy. Who are you two? Aren't you on work detail? Escaped, have you? I suppose you know the Robomen are on the other side of this machine? 
ROBOMAN: Wait. 
WELLS: Take these. (pickaxes) Leave the talking to me. 
ROBOMAN: What are these two men doing here? 
WELLS: I took them off work detail to help me pick up these tools. 
ROBOMAN: Which work detail? 
WELLS: Oh, I don't know. Over that way somewhere. I'll take 'em back with me. 
ROBOMAN: No, they must come for selection. Why do you wait? Pick up the implements and walk ahead of me. 
(Ian does) 
ROBOMAN: You too. 
(Larry moves off) 
ROBOMAN: You. (he hits him) In future, refer all decisions to your masters. 
WELLS: Oh, my head. 
ROBOMAN: What are you doing? 
IAN: We can't leave him here. 
ROBOMAN: Do not resist orders. 
IAN: Get new orders. Come on Larry, let's take him in here. 
(They go inside the earth mover while the Roboman gets his new orders)

[Earth Mover]

WELLS: I'm all right. It was the only thing I could think of. 
IAN: Good man. Get down here. 
(The Roboman enters, and Ian hits him over the head) 
IAN: I think that's taken care of him for a while. 
WELLS: I'll take care of this. (the Roboman's rifle) You'll have to get out of here. The Daleks always seem to know when one of the Robomen's attacked. 
IAN: Yes, it breaks the radio connection. 
WELLS: Your best bet is to mingle in with the working parties. 
IAN: What about you? 
WELLS: I come here to meet Ashton. 
LARRY: Ashton? 
WELLS: The black marketeer. No one knows how he gets into the camp or out again, but he does, and smuggles in food as well. 
IAN: Oh, does he. 
LARRY: We don't want to hang about here, Ian. 
WELLS: Wait till I'm clear then make a break for it. We'll meet again after dark. 
IAN: That's a good idea. Listen, I'd like to meet this man Ashton. He could probably help me out of the camp. I need to get back to London. 
WELLS: London? 
LARRY: He's got friends there. 
WELLS: I suppose you know they destroyed it?

[Museum]

JENNY: No Daleks about that I can see. They must have thought Dortmun was on his own. 
BARBARA: I remembered to get his notes. 
JENNY: Why did he do it? 
BARBARA: Oh, many reasons. Mainly because he wouldn't give in. 
JENNY: What's the point of that? He just threw his life away. It was so senseless. 
BARBARA: It depends on how you look at it. 
JENNY: You've got this romantic idea about resistance. There is nothing heroic about dying. There's no point in throwing lives away just to prove a principle. 
BARBARA: If Dortmun hadn't thrown his life away, we would all be dead. He knew exactly what he was doing. He sacrificed himself so that you and I would have a chance. Come on, we're ready to go. 
(Barbara climbs into the driving seat and starts up the Borough of Ealing rubbish cart) 
BARBARA: Open the doors. 
(Jenny climbs on and they drive away past Dortmun's body)

[Sewers]

SUSAN: This smells like an old goat farm. 
DAVID: I think we can rest here. 
SUSAN: Good idea. 
DAVID: Well. we're not like to be found down here. 
SUSAN: Aren't we? Look at this, David. It's an old cartridge. Can't be the Daleks, can it. They don't use guns. David, could the Robomen get down here? 
DAVID: No, I don't think so. 
SUSAN: Well, it must be friends then. 
DAVID: Not necessarily. Not all human beings are automatically allies. There are people who will kill for a few scraps of food. 
SUSAN: Survive at all costs. 
DAVID: Yes. (he checks his pistol) Four bullets. Of course, it's no use against the Daleks, but it will stop anyone else. 
SUSAN: No spares? 
DAVID: No. I found this gun and that's all that was in it. 
SUSAN: David! 
(Someone is pointing a gun at them)

[In the truck]

JENNY: Do you think that Dalek saw us back there? 
BARBARA: It must have heard the noise. 
JENNY: Then we're in for trouble. 
BARBARA: Yes, they're sure to radio ahead. We may have to ditch this at any moment. 
(round a corner and) 
BARBARA: Jenny, there's a whole bunch of them ahead of us. 
JENNY: Shall we jump for it? 
BARBARA: No. I'm going through. 
(She scatters them like skittles) 
JENNY: We went straight through them! Straight through them! 
BARBARA: Yeah, it wasn't bad, was it. I rather enjoyed that. We won't be able to stay in this much longer though. They'll be after us with a vengeance now.

[Control centre]

DALEK: Rebels travelling in motorised vehicle have attacked and passed Dalek outer London cordon. 
DALEK 2: This is saucer Alpha Major. Am forty five miles south of mining area. 
DALEK [OC]: Intercept rebels and destroy.
DALEK 2: Position of rebel vehicle? Give position. 
DALEK [OC]: South east eight over three seven six. North, north, nine point eight.

[In the truck]

BARBARA: Jenny, what's that noise? 
JENNY: It's a saucer overhead. 
BARBARA: Jump for it! 
(She pulls on the handbrake and they leap out just before the saucer blows the truck to pieces.

[Sewers]

SUSAN: We're jolly lucky we (lost under other dialogue) 
DAVID: Glad we ran into you down there, Tyler. 
SUSAN: Hey, David, now that Tyler's here we can go and get Grandfather, can't we? 
DAVID: That's a good idea. 
TYLER: The Doctor, where is he? 
DAVID: Well, we had to leave him by the old plague cemetery. We're trying to find a way out of this area. 
TYLER: You don't know how lucky you were. At first I took you for scavengers. I met a couple down here already but this kept them off. 
SUSAN: You shot at one of them, didn't you. I found this. (the cartridge case) 
TYLER: I wasn't shooting at a man. These sewers are full of alligators. 
SUSAN: Alligators? In the sewers of London? 
TYLER: A lot of animals escaped from zoos during the plague. Most were killed but reptiles thrive down here. 
DAVID: Well then, I think the quicker we get going, the better? 
SUSAN: What's worse, the alligators down here or the Daleks up there? 
DAVID: Tyler, will you give us a hand to collect the old man? 
TYLER: I'll take you. You're going the wrong way anyway. Now, you take the back, behind Susan. That way we've got guns front and rear. 
DAVID: Right, Tyler. 
SUSAN: Oh, Tyler? Barbara and Ian, do you know where they are? 
TYLER: I'm sorry, no. I'll go ahead now. You stay here til I call. 
(Tyler leaves) 
SUSAN: Why is he so abrupt? 
DAVID: Tyler? He's afraid to make friends. He's known too much killing. 
SUSAN: Well, I hope I'm never like that, pretending not to care. 
DAVID: Bah. One day this will be all over. It'll mean a new start. 
SUSAN: A new start? Rebuilding a planet from the very beginning. It's a wonderful idea. 
DAVID: You could always help. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
TYLER [OC]: All clear here. Come on now. 
DAVID: Go on, Susan. I'll keep right behind you.

[Street]

(In a terrace of bay-window fronted homes, by a nice traditional round post box) 
BARBARA: It's all right, Jenny, it's clear. 
JENNY: Any idea where we are? 
BARBARA: Oh, somewhere between Edgware and Stanmore, I should think. 
JENNY: We're on the road for St Alban's. Barbara, suppose we don't find your friends at the mine? 
BARBARA: I'll think about that when we get there. Look, you don't have to stay with me if you don't want to. I can get there on my own. 
JENNY: We might as well stay together. 
BARBARA: All right, come on then.

[Bedfordshire mining area]

IAN: I tell you, I heard something. A sort of sliding noise. 
LARRY: Which direction? 
IAN: I don't know. I thought it was round here. 
(Ian peers round the corner of an Earth Mover and something ugly slides away) 
LARRY: What was it?

[Earth Mover]

(They take refuge in the Earth Mover and are met by a man pointing a gun at them) 
ASHTON: Right, you can just turn around and go out again. 
LARRY: What, with that thing out there? 
ASHTON: It didn't see you come in. It needn't see you go out. 
IAN: Are you Ashton? 
ASHTON: How do you know? 
LARRY: Wells told us. We've come here looking specially for you. 
ASHTON: People tell all kinds of lies when they're starving. 
(the creature outside roars over the next line) 
IAN: We're hungry, but we're not starving. I want to go to London. 
ASHTON: Why die there? 
IAN: I don't intend to die anywhere. 
ASHTON: Can you pay? 
IAN: Pay? What are you talking about? 
ASHTON: Are you one of these brotherhood of man kind of people? 
IAN: You come in here. Is there any reason why you shouldn't take me out? 
ASHTON: I can take you out, at the right price. 
IAN: And what's that? 
ASHTON: Gold, precious metals, jewels. 
IAN: I don't have anything like that. 
ASHTON: Then I hope you manage to avoid the Slyther as you leave. 
IAN: I'm not leaving. 
ASHTON: Well 
WELLS: (bursting in) Ashton! 
(Wells hands over some jewellry) 
WELLS: That's for the food. These two are friends of mine. 
ASHTON: I see you managed to bring their character references just in time. Well, chaps, I suppose we ought to have something to eat. 
WELLS: This bundle's mine. It's to be shared out amongst a lot of people and you aren't included. 
ASHTON: I've got my own. 
IAN: You know all the best people, don't you? 
WELLS: He's our only source of proper food. 
LARRY: What was that thing we saw out there? 
WELLS: It's called a Slyther. 
IAN: A Slyther? What's that? 
ASHTON: Where do you come from, mate? Fairyland? 
WELLS: The Black Dalek, he's the commandant of the camp, regards it as a sort of pet. 
IAN: You mean it's on some sort of a guard duty? 
WELLS: Yes, well, in a way. Mainly it roams the mine area at night in search of food. 
LARRY: What sort of food? 
ASHTON: People.

[Sewers]

(At the bottom of a ladder) 
SUSAN: Tyler! 
DAVID: He can't have got so far ahead. 
SUSAN: Perhaps our voices aren't carrying. These walls could deflect the sound, I suppose. 
DAVID: There's a ladder there. 
SUSAN: Yes. 
DAVID: Let's try up there. 
SUSAN: Yes, all right. (goes up the steps) There's a tunnel through here. 
DAVID: Careful, Susan. 
SUSAN: I'm all right. Tyler? (comes to an edge with a ladder down) Tyler? Are you down there? 
DAVID: Careful. 
(As she starts to go down the ladder, it comes away from the wall at the top and she is left hanging onto a rung) 
SUSAN: David! (scream) David! 
(Below her, an alligator lines up in the hope its next meal is about to drop in, then a manhole cover opens above and a shot rings out. Tyler and David pull the ladder back to the wall and help Susan up) 
DAVID: Steady. Are you all right? 
SUSAN: Yes. Swinging. 
DAVID: You'd have probably given him indigestion anyway. 
SUSAN: Thank you. 
TYLER: All right now, come on. I've found the Doctor. He's waiting for us up here. 
DAVID: Okay, now take your time. 
SUSAN: Where's Grandfather's stick? 
DAVID: I'll bring it. Take your time.

[Earth Mover]

(Ashton uses a jewellers eye-piece to check his payment as the others eat) 
ASHTON: You know, Wells, you're a fool. For all this stuff I'd have gladly taken you outside. There are plenty of small towns and villages that the Daleks have cleared of people and left intact. Food galore. 
WELLS: I'll get out in my own good time. 
ASHTON: Well, suit yourself. You people never learn, do you. 
LARRY: (hands something to Wells) That's for the two of us. Thanks for ours. 
WELLS: Right, I'll take it, if you don't mind. It'll help pay for the next lot from Ashton. 
(Slyther roars, then there's a sound like a big heart beat. Suddenly, Slyther has managed to get into the Earth Mover. Ashton shoots at it) 
WELLS: Get out!

[Bedfordshire mining area]

(Larry, Ian and Wells scramble out of the Earth Mover as Ashton is overpowered by the creature. They run to the edge of the mine) 
LARRY: This way's no good. It's a sheer drop. 
IAN: We'll have to go back. 
LARRY: The Slyther, Ian! It's coming straight for us!

Episode Five - The Waking Ally

[Bedfordshire mining area]

(Larry slips at the edge) 
IAN: Larry! 
LARRY: Ian! 
(Larry grabs the edge of a mining bucket. Ian leaps into the bucket itself) 
IAN: Hold on, Larry! 
(IAN hauls Larry up into the bucket.) 
IAN: All right? 
LARRY: Thanks. 
IAN: It's still coming. I hope it cant jump. 
LARRY: Its going to try! 
(The Slyther grabs the edge of the bucket, so Ian grabs a rock and hits it until it falls. There's a satisfying crash at the bottom) 
LARRY: Lets get out of here. 
IAN: No. No, hang on a minute. Somebody might have heard us.

[Control centre]

BLACK: There is no work party in shaft nine. Why? 
DALEK: The section is completed. The labour force is being assembled for clearing operations. 
BLACK: Work must proceed to schedule. There must be no delays. 
DALEK: All will be ready. The waste bucket in shaft nine is being lowered now.

[Mining bucket]

IAN: I think its all clear now. 
LARRY: Might as well take a chance. We cant stay here all night. Whats happening? 
IAN: Were going down!

[Sewer]

DOCTOR: Oh, dear. Ghastly. Well I must say this is a nice state of affairs. Weve barely covered a mile and here we are hiding down the sewers again. 
DAVID: Were better to hide down here, Doctor, than be caught by those Robomen. 
DAVID: Tyler, did they see us? 
TYLER: Well, they were coming this way but they dont seem to know what they were going to do. 
SUSAN: How many? 
TYLER: Just two of them. Listen, I couldnt get that cover on. Wed better get under shelter. Doctor, Susan. 
DOCTOR: You do realise, of course, we shall have to let them both come down before we decide to defend ourselves. 
TYLER: Well, we can take them one at a time. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, just one. The others bound to return and bring back reinforcements. 
TYLER: If we stick together long enough, Ill learn to do what you say the first time. 
(The Robomen peer down the manhole as David and Tyler check their ammunition. Then they both come down the ladder. Tyler's gun doesn't fire so he takes on the first Roboman hand to hand. Then David comes out of hiding.) 
DAVID: Move Tyler, move! 
(David's shot misses and they both end up struggling with the Robomen. Susan runs to help David.) 
SUSAN: No! No! 
(The Doctor hits Tyler's adversary over the head with his new walking stick. Tyler finishes him off.) 
DAVID: Susan! 
(The second Roboman starts back up the ladder. Tyler picks up David's gun and shoots him) 
DOCTOR: Well, is everybody alright? 
TYLER: Yes. 
DAVID: Yes, Doctor. 
(Tyler goes to shoot the other Roboman) 
DOCTOR: No, Tyler, no. I never take life. Only when my own is immediately threatened. Now then, let us make our way to this mine and then we shall know how to deal with these Daleks. Leave this creature to his own devices and salvation. Come along. You lead the way, my boy. Come along.

[Outside a hut]

BARBARA: It's deserted, Jenny. With this storm coming, well be much better off inside.

[Hut]

WOMAN: Whos there? Who is it? 
(Jenny and Barbara enter, and the girl screams) 
WOMAN: What do you want? 
BARBARA: We, we were looking for shelter. 
WOMAN: Just the two of you? Tired, are you? 
BARBARA: Yes. Yes, we are. 
JENNY: Barbara, I think we should be moving on.
GIRL: Dogsll catch you. Dogs in the forest. 
BARBARA: Dogs? 
WOMAN: Savage beasts. After the plague, they formed a pack. Where are you making for? 
BARBARA: The mine. We have friends there. Were trying to find them. 
GIRL: Nobody gets away from there. Youll be caught yourselves. 
WOMAN: Youre lucky to have got this far. The patrols pass here. 
JENNY: Then how is it youre still free. They must know youre here? 
WOMAN: Oh, they know all right. Yes, they know, but we cant harm them. Besides, we make clothes for the slave workers. Were more use to them doing that than we would be in the mine. 
BARBARA: How do you manage? For food, I mean? 
WOMAN: Oh, they give us some in return for the clothes. Were hungry most of the time though. 
BARBARA: We have some food here. Youre welcome to that. 
WOMAN: Thank you, thank you. Get the table ready, child. 
GIRL: Yes. 
(The woman starts searching Barbara's rucksack) 
WOMAN: More? Have you got any more in here? Oh yes. 
(Barbara rescues the notebook and the woman pierces another can with a very large knife to check the contents) 
WOMAN: In return you can sleep here for the night. You can make your bed out of this cloth. Come on, child. Come on. Youll be nice and comfortable there. 
(she goes and whispers to the girl) 
WOMAN: Now, you go and take these and go (unintelligible) there's a good girl. Go on, then, there's a good girl. 
GIRL: I have to go out to deliver these clothes. 
WOMAN: Your meal will be ready when you get back, child. 
JENNY: Go out in this weather? 
WOMAN: Theyre waiting for her. 
BARBARA: What about those dogs you talked about? 
WOMAN: Oh, shell follow the patrols. 
GIRL: Ill follow the patrols. 
(The girl leaves) 
WOMAN: Shell come to no harm. Shes done it often enough. And when you 've done with your beds, shall you help me with the food?

{Mine bucket]

LARRY: Still no sign of the bottom. 
IAN: No. How long do you think weve been going down now? 
LARRY: Must be nearly twenty minutes. Its getting warmer, isnt it? 
IAN: Yes. Pressure's increasing too. My ears are popping. 
LARRY: Id rather be dead than work down here. 
IAN: Not a choice Id like to face. 
LARRY: Its stopping. We must be near the bottom. Yes, look. Lights! 
IAN: Lets get out of here, Larry, before this bucket tips up. 
LARRY: Its a bit of a drop, Ian. 
IAN: Well, about twelve feet, thats all. Come on. 
(Ian jumps first. Larry is still in the bucket when it starts to go along a rail. He falls badly when he jumps)

[Mine]

IAN: Larry, you all right? 
LARRY: Its my kneecap. I caught it on the truck as I fell. 
IAN: Put your weight on me. Stand up. 
LARRY: Its no good. 
IAN: No? if you cant move, wed better get under cover. Its too light here. We'll go over there. Now, put your weight on me. Thats it. Slowly.

[Hut]

WOMAN: I went to London once. It seems years ago now. You know, is it still the same? 
JENNY: Theyve destroyed most of it. 
WOMAN: Destroyed? Well I never. Oh, when I went it was beautiful. There was the moving pavements, and the shops, and the astronaut fair I went to and it was in the Chelsea heliport. 
(The girl returns and runs to the woman) 
DALEK: You will follow me, both of you. Do not try to escape or you will be exterminated. Move. 
(Jenny and Barbara leave) 
GIRL: Bread and oranges and sugar. 
WOMAN: Oh, good, good. I knew theyd give us food if we told them. Oh, well. Shed have been captured anyway.

[Mine]

IAN: Howre you feeling? 
LARRY: Better. I dont think Ill be able to walk. 
IAN: Dont worry. Well stay here for a while. You know, Larry, this mine doesnt make sense to me. Wheres all the modern machinery? 
LARRY: The Daleks brought machinery from all over the world. All they seem to be shifting is rocks. 
IAN: Yes. I suppose they could be processing it somewhere. 
LARRY: Who knows what the Daleks are up to? I told you what my brother Phil said, all they want is the magnetic core of Earth. 
IAN: Yes, but why find it in such an old fashioned way? 
LARRY: Its probably a clearance area. Perhaps we havent found the main shaft yet. 
IAN: You may be right at that. Larry, would you be all right if I went to have a look? 
LARRY: Yeah, sure. 
IAN: Good man. 
(Ian hears someone coming and hides with Larry behind some baskets. Robomen lead in a work party who start taking the baskets) 
WELLS: (spotting them) Youll have to move. Theyre clearing this whole section. 
LARRY: Move? Where to? 
IAN: Well, lets join them. Take a basket, Larry. 
PHIL: (a Roboman) Halt! 
LARRY: Phil! Its my brother. Ian, its my brother. 
PHIL: Too many in working party. Dalek Supreme Control recheck. Who are you? 
LARRY: Phil? Phil, its Larry. Your brother Larry. Think, Phil! Remember me! 
PHIL: You are both runaways. 
LARRY: Angela. Your wife, Angela! Ill take you to her. 
PHIL: You must both be punished. 
IAN: Its no good, Larry. 
LARRY: No, no! No, Ian! 
IAN: Come on! 
LARRY: Ian, get clear. Run while youve got the chance! Run, Ian. Run. 
(Larry throttles Phil while Phil shoots Larry) 
LARRY: Run, Ian, run. 
Phil: Larry. 
(They die, and the alarm goes off) 
DALEK [OC]: (behind next dialogue) Emergency! Emergency! Priority shaft nine. Close all exits! Emergency! 
WELLS: Right, get these bodies clear. Get them down the shafts. Shaft seven, shaft eight! Ill take care of that. (the gun) Someone tell them whats happened. Run, quick as you like. Get those bodies out of here. Hurry! 
(Ian runs down a side passage)

[Cliff top]

(Susan adds some seasoning to a saucepan cooking on a camp fire. David sneaks up behind her and dangles a fish in front of her face. She screams.) 
DAVID: Some fresh fish! You want some fresh fish? Ive got some! 
SUSAN: David, you idiot. You idiot. 
(They have a little wrestling match on the grass) 
DAVID: Oh no, its not for me! I didnt want it! Not me! 
SUSAN: Drop it! 
(David takes Susan's hand) 
DAVID: Your grandfather stood up to the journey fantastically well. 
SUSAN: Hes a pretty fantastic sort of man. 
(They kiss, barely) 
DOCTOR: Smells familiar round here. 
SUSAN: Just in time for food. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, my dear. 
DAVID: Ah, we were just, er, well, I was just, er. 
DOCTOR: Quite, quite. I can see somethings cooking. 
TYLER: What is that? 
DAVID: Thats rabbit. 
SUSAN: Its pretty primitive. Its the best I could do though. 
DOCTOR: Most useful. 
DAVID: Hot! 
(Tyler wraps his sleeve around his hand to pick up the saucepan and sample the meal) 
DAVID: Hey, youve got a big piece there. Doctor, would you like some? Smells delicious. 
DOCTOR: Susans a very good cook. 
DAVID: Yes. Tell me, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
DAVID: Now that youve seen the Dalek base, what do you think? 
DOCTOR: Well its quite obvious to me its the centre of their operations. 
SUSAN + DAVID: Centre? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite. You know, you surprise me, Tyler. Why didnt you concentrate your efforts here? 
TYLER: Weve been fighting the Daleks everywhere. Well, the fact that they started mining operations didnt seem all that important. 
DAVID: Yeah, well, we assumed that they were just digging for minerals, you know, something they could use to make 
DOCTOR: No, I think perhaps it might be the answer to the question as to why the Daleks are here. 
DAVID: But why, Doctor? Surely theyve invaded us? 
DOCTOR: Oh no, it goes much deeper than that. You see, man, to them, is just a work machine. An insignificant specimen that is not worth invading. Absolutely useless. It doesnt matter to them whether you live or die. 
TYLER: Yeah, thats true enough. 
DAVID: Well, what are they digging for? 
DOCTOR: Well, at the moment, my boy, Im not quite sure, but let us say something that this planet contains. Something that no planet has. 
TYLER: And you think if it was something on the surface, theyd have just collected it and gone? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite, quite. Instead, there they are, burrowing like moles down and through the crust of the Earth. 
TYLER: But isnt that impossible? I mean, without causing an eruption, a huge earthquake no one could survive. 
DOCTOR: Not unless they know how to control the flow of living energy, hmm? 
DAVID: Is that what it is? They dare to tamper with the forces of creation? 
DOCTOR: Yes, they dare. And we have got to dare to stop them. 
SUSAN: Grandfather? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
SUSAN: Its getting cold. Look.

[Mine]

ROBOMAN [OC]: Keep moving. 
(Ian hides as a work party goes past, including Barbara and Jenny) 
ROBOMAN: Move! 
IAN: Barbara! (A little way on) 
ROBOMAN: Fill these buckets. Hurry! 
(Baskets of rocks are emptied into a wagon on rails under the watch of a Dalek. Jenny can't lift the basket) 
JENNY: Were beaten, Barbara. Well never get out of here. Never. 
BARBARA: Dont be silly, Jenny. Thats no way to talk. Look, we wanted to get to the mine and were here. 
JENNY: Yes, but what can we do? 
BARBARA: You can help me fill this basket again. We could try and find their main control room. Im sure thats what the Doctor would do. 
JENNY: And then what will happen? 
BARBARA: Oh, I dont know, Jenny, I dont know, but look, we can try! If we get there and fail, well, all theyll do is send us back here. 
DALEK: You. Take all buckets to the clearing section. 
WELLS: Fine. 
(Wells hands something to Jenny as he takes the basket, then heads down the passage to where he meets Ian) 
IAN: Wells. 
WELLS: Ian, I told you to get out of here. 
IAN: Thats easier said than done. Wells, that tall girl in the blue sweater. I know her. Tell her Im here. 
WELLS: Right, Ill try, but Ive got to get rid if these first. 
IAN: Yes, all right. 
(Further on) 
JENNY: Anyway, theyll never let us anywhere near the control room. 
BARBARA: Dortmuns notes! 
JENNY: What? 
BARBARA: Jenny, Ive still got Dortmuns notes! 
JENNY: And a lot of good they are. 
BARBARA: No, no, you dont understand, Oh, I havent got time to explain. Jenny, come with me. 
JENNY: Oh Barbara, do you know what youre doing? 
DALEK: Get back to work. 
BARBARA: I have some important information. Rebels are planning a revolution against the Daleks. 
DALEK: There will be no revolution. The Daleks are masters of Earth. 
BARBARA: But you dont understand. This is no ordinary uprising. They have scientists, men of learning working with them. 
DALEK: You are lying. It is a trick. 
BARBARA: No, I have proof of what I say. 
DALEK: Proof? Let me see. 
(She holds up the notes) 
DALEK: Details of the acid bomb used in the unprovoked attack on the London saucer landing area. 
BARBARA: Theres more. I know places where theyre hiding. 
DALEK: Very well. Speak. 
BARBARA: Well, it, it would be better if I spoke to someone in charge. 
DALEK: That is impossible. Tell me your story. 
BARBARA: But its very complex and detailed. You would have to act immediately on what I told you. I must speak to someone in authority. 
DALEK: The Black Dalek will see you, but if you are lying, you will be killed. Follow me. 
(Barbara and Jenny follow the Dalek) 
ROBOMAN: Continue your work. 
(Along the passage) 
WELLS: Right, step into line and follow me. 
IAN: We're too late. The Daleks have just taken her. 
WELLS: Pity. Oh well, theres an empty gallery behind us there. Lose yourself there. 
IAN: Right.

[Control room]

BLACK: Give me your report. 
DALEK: The main drills have penetrated the quartz strata. We are within four miles of the Earths outer core. 
BLACK: When will the final breakthrough occur? 
DALEK: The slave parties are clearing the top of the fissure now. 
BLACK: What remains to be done? 
DALEK: Only to put into position the penetration explosive. The charge is in the fissure capsule now. When positioned, the charge will strike the fissure in the Earths crust here. 
BLACK: The fissure will expand, the molten core be released. 
DALEK: We will then control the flow until all the gravitational and magnetic forces in the Earths core are eliminated. 
BLACK: Excellent. I will now announce to the Dalek Earth force, completion of Project Degravitate in two hours time. 
DALEK [OC]: Attention.

[Capsule control]

DALEK [OC]: Attention all units. Stand by for an announcement by the Supreme Controller. (Ian hides in a capsule) 
BLACK [OC]: This is the Supreme Controller. Our mission to Earth is nearly completed. We were sent here to remove the core of this planet.

[Control centre]

BLACK: Once the core is removed, we can replace it with a power system that will enable us to pilot the planet anywhere in the universe.

[Capsule control]

BLACK [OC]: All that remains is to put into position the penetration explosive. Daleks controlling device will now report. 
DALEK: We are ready. 
BLACK [OC]: Arm the device. 
DALEK: Device now armed. 
BLACK: Set capsule in motion. 
(The other half of the capsule casing moves forward, trapping Ian inside) 
DALEK: Hatch over control to closed position. Motor running. 
DALEK 2: Capsule moving.

[Control centre]

BLACK: As soon as the capsule is in position over the fissure, release it. 
(Inside the capsule, Ian searches for a way out of this literal cliff-hanger)

Episode Six - Flashpoint

[Capsule]

(As the capsule slides down its guide rails, Ian is busy inside, fiddling with wires. He pulls some out and the capsule stops. So he continues to pull wires and twist them together)

[Capsule control]

(A team of Robomen are pulling on the rope attached to the top of the capsule) 
ROBOMEN: Pull. Pull. Pull. 
(As the capsule ascends and Ian messes with the wires, a trap door opens by his feet.) 
ROBOMEN: Pull. Pull. Pull. 
(Ian climbs down the rope out of the capsule)

[Control centre]

DALEK [OC]: Capsule now arrived at sub station. 
BLACK: Ascertain extent of breakdown and then 
DALEK [OC]: Man has been seen leaving capsule. 
BLACK: Exterminate him! Exterminate him! Exterminate him!

[Substation]

DALEK: Stay where you are! 
(The Dalek fires at the rope, which snaps and Ian slides down to a door at the top of the fissure proper. He is out cold)

[Corridor]

JENNY: We must be getting near their control room, Barbara. What do you want me to do? 
DALEK: Move. 
BARBARA: Try to find the main control panel. Do as much damage as you can. Ill try and keep them occupied. 
DALEK: Silence. You will only speak when you are ordered to do so.

[Control centre]

DALEK 2: Dalek reports human fallen down bomb shaft. Capsule is being repaired. 
(Barbara and Jenny enter)
DALEK: Wait here.
BLACK: Every error must be corrected. The penetration explosive must strike the fissure correctly if we are to extract the molten core. Have all work tasks been completed? 
DALEK 3: They have. 
BLACK: Then arrange for the extermination of all human beings. 
DALEK 4: Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill! 
DALEK 5: The final solution! Clear up this planet! 
BLACK: Alter the command frequencies to aural control to all Robomen. They are to herd humans down to the lower galleries. 
DALEK 3: Immediately. Testing aural control. Testing aural control.

[Corridor]

(A light flashes on a Roboman's helmet) 
DALEK [OC]: Testing aural control. Testing aural control.

[Control centre]

BARBARA: Did you see that, Jenny? Thats the way they control the Robomen. 
DALEK 3: Herd all humans to galleries to nine, ten and fifteen. 
JENNY: Perhaps we could put it out of action? 
BARBARA: We could do better than that, we could give it new orders. Tell them to turn on the Daleks. 
JENNY: Yes! Thats a great idea. 
DALEK: They are the prisoners that reported the imminent revolt. 
BLACK: Speak! 
BARBARA: (reading Dortmun's notes.) This bomb is the one with which 
BLACK: We are not interested in the bomb. Give your information! 
BARBARA: Right. This revolt is timed to start almost immediately. As in the case of the Indian mutiny, which I am sure 
BLACK: Indian mutiny? We are the masters of India! 
BARBARA: I was talking about Red Indians in disguise! The plan will run parallel with the Boston Tea Party. Naturally, you already have information about this. 
BLACK: Wait! Why have I not been informed of this? 
DALEK 2: There has been no information. 
BARBARA: Good! That means the first part of the plan is a success. Now, I warn you, General Lee and the four, the fifth cavalry are already forming up to attack from the north side of the crater. The second wave, Hannibals forces, will of course come in from the Southern Alps. The third wave 
BLACK: Attention! Attention! Mobilise defence forces! 
(Barbara dashes to the Robomen control panel) 
BARBARA: Robomen, this order cannot be countermanded. You must 
BLACK: Take them! They are lying! Take them! Take them! Take them! 
DALEK 3: I will arrange for their extermination. 
BLACK: No. Secure them. They will be killed in the explosion. The countdown must proceed to schedule. 
(Barbara and Jenny are fastened by collars to a pillar.) 
BARBARA: Sorry, Jenny. 
JENNY: What for? It was a marvellous attempt and it nearly worked too. 
BARBARA: Yes, it didnt and we wont get a second try. Look. That must be the bomb shaft.

[Cliff edge]

TYLER: Have you ever seen anything like that mine, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I certainly have not. Ah, good! There seems to be a way down there. 
TYLER: I still say its madness. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well lets have a closer look. 
(The Doctor peers down through binoculars) 
DAVID: Yes, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: How many bombs have you got left? 
DAVID: Er, Ive got three, I think. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well that should be enough. Now, you see that mast over there? 
DAVID: (through binoculars) Yes. 
DOCTOR: And the cable behind it? 
DAVID: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Well, I want you and Susan to walk around the lip of the crater and sever it. Use the bombs. Detonate with your revolver, right? 
DAVID: Right, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Off you go, and dont stop to pick daises on the way. 
(David and Susan leave.) 
DOCTOR: I dont think theyll run into any trouble. 
TYLER: And what about us? 
DOCTOR: Thatll be harder to guarantee. Come along. Get down.

[Top of fissure]

(Ian comes round, and opens a circular door in a stone wall. A Roboman enters the room on the other side so Ian closes it again)

[Control centre]

BLACK: As soon as the repairs to the capsule are complete, the explosive device will be released into the bowels of this planet. 
JENNY: Sounds as though theyre almost ready. 
BLACK: Attention all Daleks. Our saucers are hovering above the mine area. Notice to board saucers will be given shortly.

[Corridor]

DOCTOR: Now, Ive neutralised the warning system. 
(A door opens.) 
DOCTOR: Shall we go in? 
TYLER: Ill say one thing, Doc. Lifes never dull with you around. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, but dont call me Doc, I prefer Doctor. Do you mind?

[Room]

(Ian opens the small door again. The room contains small tree trunks so he uses some to block what will be the passage of the capsule)

[Control centre]

DALEK: The work on the capsule is complete. The device is ready. 
BLACK: Good. We shall have one hour to leave when the device is fired. Am firing now. 
(The capsule slides down its guide rails and stops when it hits Ian's barrier) 
BLACK: The explosive device is on its way to the centre of the Earth. We shall go the edge of the mine workings and be picked up by the saucers.

[Corridor]

(The Doctor and Tyler hide as the Black Dalek leads the others away) 
TYLER: That was a close one. 
DOCTOR: Apparently things are on the move.

[Control centre]

BARBARA: Well, they didnt bother to kill us. I suppose the explosion will take care of that. 
JENNY: Its no good, Barbara. I cant move mine! 
BARBARA: Listen. I think the Daleks are coming back. 
(The Doctor and Tyler enter) 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara! 
BARBARA: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: The magnet! The magnet, quickly! 
(Tyler grabs it) 
DOCTOR: Is Chesterton with you? Never mind. 
(The women are released) 
DOCTOR: We must begin our action before the Daleks get back. 
BARBARA: I dont think they will be coming back. They activated one of their bombs. They intend to blow a hole through the centre of the Earth. 
DOCTOR: But why? 
JENNY: Theyre trying to pilot the Earth right out of its orbit. The bombs due to go off in half an hour's time. 
DOCTOR: Well, we must prevent this, Barbara. If they succeed, it will the mean that they'll upset the entire constellation. Weve got to prevent it! 
BARBARA: But how? 
DOCTOR: By keeping the Daleks here. Keep your eyes skinned on the door. 
TYLER: All right. 
DOCTOR: Now, I wonder. Can I do anything with this scanner? 
BARBARA: Theres Susan! 
DOCTOR: Oh yes! Susan and David. Now, theyre trying to fracture the outer cable ring. 
JENNY: Well what will that do? 
DOCTOR: Well, if its possible, you see, we might be able to immobilise the Daleks. 
DALEK [OC]: Scanner frequencies have been changed in Central control. 
BLACK [OC]: The prisoners must have escaped! Deal with them. 
DOCTOR: The radio circuits still working. 
BARBARA: Hurry, Susan, hurry! 
DOCTOR: Theres nothing we can do, my dear. Just watch and wait. We cant contact them from here.

[Corridor]

DALEK: Two zero reporting.

[Control centre]

TYLER: A Dalek's coming.

[Corridor]

DALEK: Will exterminate them at zero range.

[Control centre]

TYLER: Its nearly here. (On the scanner, David and Susan do their job) 
DALEK: Thermostat reading too high! Heat increase intolerable! Heat increase complete! Power loss complete! Argh! 
TYLER: You took a chance. 
DOCTOR: A chance? Yes. 
BARBARA: Can you stop the bomb, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Not now, Barbara. We dont know how long this little trick of ours will hold the Daleks. We may have to find something else. 
BARBARA: Well, look. That thing over there controls the Robomen. We discovered that earlier. Er, maybe we could give it new orders? 
DOCTOR: Yes! Thats brilliant, my dear! Good. Carry on. 
BARBARA: (as a Dalek) Robomen, this is your last order. Obey it and no other. 
DOCTOR: Turn on the Daleks, turn on the Daleks, kill the Daleks, do you hear?

[Corridor]

(And they do)

[Control centre]

(Wells and a group arrive and take away the dead Dalek. Ian bursts in) 
IAN: Barbara! 
(They hug) 
IAN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, where did you spring from? 
IAN: Well, I was trying to get out of the mine and suddenly the Robomen turned on the Daleks! Well, you know the rest. 
DOCTOR: Well, the people are fighting back at last! 
(The people and Robomen are running out of the mine entrance) 
IAN: That must be where I jammed it, so that must be where it will explode. 
BARBARA: But look, its going to go off in ten minutes time. 
DOCTOR: I dont think their device will succeed in that position. But still, it will be a gigantic explosion. 
TYLER: Then we ought to get as many people out of this area as we possibly can. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I quite agree.

[Corridor]

JENNY: Well be safe outside the valley. 
DOCTOR: And we must all meet back on the cliff, we were before. Now hurry up, all of you.

[Cliff edge]

DOCTOR: The explosion will take place any second. Keep right down, all of you! 
(KaBOOM! and the magma wells up from the mine. A mushroom cloud ascends) 
DOCTOR: The saucers were caught in the upward thrust of that explosion. 
JENNY: Do you think any Daleks escaped? 
DOCTOR: In that, my dear? Impossible. Theres something new for you, Tyler. A volcanic eruption in England. 
TYLER: Its unbelievable. 
DOCTOR: Yes, its unbelievable. 
JENNY: Its over.

[Riverside]

(Wells helps clear the last timber from a very battered Tardis) 
TYLER: Well, at least the firebombs didnt destroy everything. Pity Dortmun couldnt be here. Dortmun and people like him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and its to them that you must dedicate your next task, the rebuilding of the Earth. And Im sure youre going to make a great success of it. 
TYLER: You sound as if youre leaving. 
(The Westminster chimes sound) 
TYLER: Listen. 
DOCTOR: Just the beginning. Just the beginning. All alone, eh, Susan, hmm? 
SUSAN: I was thinking. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I afraid weve had so little time for that sort of thing lately. 
SUSAN: It would be nice if we 
DOCTOR: I, er, well, Im sorry, Susan. 
SUSAN: It wasnt important. What were you going to, Ow! 
DOCTOR: Oh my dear Susan, youre hurt. 
SUSAN: Oh, its not me, its this shoe of mine. Look, its worn right out. 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear, dear. 
SUSAN: It must have been that journey back from the mine. 
DOCTOR: Dear, dear, dear, I shall have to mend this, shant I now? 
SUSAN: Oh, dont worry, Grandfather. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, no, no, no worry, my child, no. When Ive finished with this, it will look as good as new. 
SUSAN: Really, its not worth it. Ive got dozens of other pairs. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Hmm. 
SUSAN: Id better clear out my cupboard. Its in a dreadful muddle. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you little monkey. You know, since youve been away from that school, you seem to have got yourself thoroughly disorganised, havent you? Yes, you need taking in hand. Well, I, er, I think I must check up on the ship, if you dont mind. 
SUSAN: Wont be long. (The Doctor watches Susan go over to David, then goes into the Tardis) 
IAN: What are your plans, David? 
DAVID: Me? Oh, Ill join a group that work the land. More than anything, I want to see things grow again. I want to be a part of it. 
IAN: Its a nice idea. Do you come from the country? 
DAVID: Yes. My family have always been associated with the land. 
IAN: Oh, er, where do they live? 
DAVID: Well, they live a long way from here. 
(Barbara hauls Ian away) 
TYLER: Well cant stand here talking all day. See me before you go, David. 
DAVID: I will Tyler. I will. 
SUSAN: Goodbye, Tyler. 
(Tyler's gone) 
SUSAN: Goodbye. 
DAVID: Susan? 
SUSAN: Yes, David? 
DAVID: Please stay. Please stay here with me. 
SUSAN: I cant stay, David. I dont belong to this time. 
DAVID: But I love you, Susan, and I want you to marry me. 
SUSAN: You see, David. Grandfathers old now. He needs me. Oh, dont make me choose between you and him, please! 
DAVID: But you told me! You said that youd never known the security of living in one place and one time. Look, you said it was something that you always longed for. Well, Im giving you that, Susan. Im giving you a place, a time, an identity. 
SUSAN: No, David! (crying) Ive lost my shoe. Oh David, I do love you! I do, I do, I do! 
(Inside the Tardis, the Doctor closes the doors) 
SUSAN: Grandfather! 
DOCTOR [OC]: Listen, Susan, please. Ive double-locked the doors. You cant get in. Now move back, child, where I can see you.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: During all the years, Ive been taking care of you, you in return have been taking care of me. 
SUSAN [on scanner]: Oh, Grandfather, I belong with you! 
DOCTOR: Not any longer, Susan. Youre still my grandchild and always will be, but now, youre a woman too.

[Riverside]

DOCTOR [OC]: I want you to belong somewhere, to have roots of your own. With David, youll be able to find those roots and live normally like any woman should do.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Believe me, my dear, your future lies with David, and not with a silly old buffer like me. One day, I shall come back. Yes, I shall come back. Until then, there must be no regrets, no tears, no anxieties. Just go forward in all your beliefs, and prove to me that I am not mistaken in mine. Goodbye, Susan, goodbye, my dear.

[Riverside]

(The Tardis dematerialises. Susan, with only one shoe, walks where it had stood) 
DAVID: Susan? Susan? He knew. He knew you could never leave him. 
(Susan looks at her Tardis key, then drops it on the ground, and they slowly walk off hand in hand)

(The TARDIS materialises in a darkened cave.) 
(Spaceship 201 is down in the valley. It has a Union Flag on it's tail and is broken in half. It's radar dish is working)

[Spaceship living quarters]

(a young girl rushes in, delighted to hear the beep of a contact on the screen) 
VICKI: Bennett!

[Spaceship corridor]

VICKI: Bennett! The rescue ships landed! Bennett, let me in! 
BENNETT [OC]: Come in.

[Bennett's quarters]

(a man is lying on the bunk) 
VICKI: Bennett, the rescue ship's landed. Its arrived. Were being taken back. Isnt it marvellous? 
BENNETT: It cant be the ship. 
VICKI: Its quite clear on the detector. Listen. 
(They can hear the radar contact.) 
BENNETT: It must be a fault. Must be. Did you talk to them by radio? 
VICKI: No. I was going to, but I thought Id tell you first. I thought youd be pleased, Bennett. 
BENNETT: The rescue ship's not due for another three days. It cant even find Dido unless we guide it down. You know that. 
VICKI: But it's showing on the screen. Come and look. Ill help you. 
BENNETT: Did you hear it land? 
VICKI: No. No, I didnt, but it 
BENNETT: The rescue ship cant land silently. 
VICKI: It must have done. Its just got here early thats all. It is here. Its as plain as anything on the screen. 
BENNETT: Whats its location? 
VICKI: I dont know. Somewhere on the mountain. 
BENNETT: Look, Vicki. I know how badly you want to get off this planet. We both want to get away but its no good building up our hopes. Go and radio the rescue ship. Youll find your mistake And Vicki, watch out for Koquillion. 
VICKI: I havent seen him today. 
BENNETT: Hell be around somewhere. And remember he knows nothing about the rescue ship. 
VICKI: I know. 
BENNETT: So be careful. If he finds out, hell kill both of us.

[Spaceship living quarters]

VICKI: Planet Dido to rescue ship. Planet Dido to rescue ship. Come in please. Over. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Rescue ship to planet Dido. Receiving you on strength two. Over. 
VICKI: Is it true? Have you? Have you landed? Over. 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Landed? Were still sixty nine flying hours away. Were proceeding on a normal course. We shall 
VICKI: But you, you cant be. I mean 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Now dont worry. Well be there. Try to hold on just a bit longer. Well contact you for directions in seventeen hours from now. Repeat, seventeen hours. Breaking contact now. 
VICKI: No! 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Over and out. 
VICKI: No! Dido to rescue! Dido to rescue! 
(no reply) 
VICKI: Sixty nine hours away? Whos landed on the mountain?

[Tardis]

(The DOCTOR is asleep in his chair) 
BARBARA: And you know how the ship has a faint sort of trembling while were moving? Well, I suddenly realised that it had stopped. 
IAN: I believe youre right, Barbara. I think we have landed. But the Doctors never slept through a landing before. 
BARBARA: Doctor. Doctor! 
IAN: Doctor! 
BARBARA: Wake up. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Whats the matter? What is it? What is it? Oh good gracious me! Dont tell me I went off to sleep. 
IAN: Yes, you did. 
DOCTOR: Oh! 
IAN: At a very critical time. Oh well, I suppose it did you a world of good. 
DOCTOR: Deep in the arms of Morpheus, hey my boy? Well, I feel a bit sticky. I must go and have a wash. 
BARBARA: Oh, but Doctor, the tremblings stopped. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, Im so glad youre feeling better. 
BARBARA: No, not me, the ship. 
DOCTOR: Oh, the. Oh my dear, Im so sorry. 
IAN: Doctor, we appear to have landed while you were asleep. 
DOCTOR: What? Oh, I say, I must never allow this sort of thing again now, must we? No. Well, all we have to do is to turn the power off. 
BARBARA: Then we have landed. 
DOCTOR: Yes, er, excuse me, materialised, I think, is a better word. Well now, lets have a look and see whats doing. Yes, the air's very good. The temperature. Yes, wherever we are, I think its nice and fine. (Yawns) Oh, do pardon me. Forgive me, Im so sorry. Yes. Well, I must say, this looks most promising. Now, lets have a little look shall we? 
(The scanner shows the cave.) 
IAN: Very dark. Cant really make out anything at all. It looks very rocky, whatever it is. 
DOCTOR: Yes. It does somewhat. Might be a cave, oreven perhaps underground. 
BARBARA: You mean we could be trapped down here? 
DOCTOR: Oh. It doesnt necessarily mean anything my dear Barbara. We can, of course, always travel throughsolid matter in flight and all, again, we can, we can take off again quite easily. No, I do think we ought to step outside and have a look. I will too. Susan, er 
BARBARA: Doctor, why dont you show me how to open the doors? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Yes, yes, yes, my dear. Of course, yes, yes, how silly of me. Yes, number four switch. 
(and the doors open) 
DOCTOR: Very good, very good. You wont, of course, try to do that during transit, will you?

[Cave]

IAN: It is a cave. You were right Doctor. 
BARBARA: Strange funny smell. Doesnt smell like anything on Earth. 
DOCTOR: No, it doesnt my dear. No, no. But I do know that smell. 
IAN: You recognise it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, more or less. Oh, have a look round, I should, but dont go too far away. Remember we havent had much luck with these caves during our travels. 
BARBARA: What are you going to do? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I think Im going to have a nap. 
(The Doctor returns to the Tardis) 
IAN: A nap? Huh. Well thats a new one, isnt it? Hes usually the first one to be up and dashing off for a look. 
BARBARA: Maybe were going to see a new side to the Doctor. 
IAN: Yes, well, he isnt getting any younger is he. You know, its the first time hes been to sleep during a landing. Barbara, Ive got an idea hes getting a bit (hand gesture for senile) 
DOCTOR: Remember I can hear what youre saying. Pick up that stone for me, would you? 
IAN: This one, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: Certainly. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
(The Doctor goes back inside) 
BARBARA: Look, Ian, all the old associations are still in the ship. You cant expect him to say goodbye to Susan and then forget about her the next minute. 
IAN: No, I suppose not. I wonder what shes doing now? 
BARBARA: If I know anyanything about David, shes learning to milk cows. 
IAN: Yes, hes a nice chap, David. 
BARBARA: Come on. 
IAN: There may be a way over here, you know. 
BARBARA: Yes, but I think the sun is coming through that way. 
IAN: Ah, so it is. (Ian and Barbara leave the cave, and something with spikes around its neck, bug eyes and antennae is seen inspecting the Tardis)

[Ledge]

(Ian and Barbara come out onto a ledge in front of a sheer cliff) 
IAN: Barbara, look! 
BARBARA: Its a spaceship. 
IAN: Yes broken in two. 
IAN: Can you see on the side? A flag! Its from home! 
BARBARA: Yes! You know it must have crashed. 
IAN: Yes, although you see those buildings? It might have been destroyed at the same time as they were on the ground. 
BARBARA: Theres no movement. No sign of life at all. 
IAN: No. No, there isnt, is there? Well, there must be people or things on this planet. 
BARBARA: Ian. 
IAN: Hmm? 
BARBARA: Are you going to tell the Doctor about this? 
IAN: Yes. Why not? 
BARBARA: Well, knowing the Doctor, hell want to go down there and investigate. 
IAN: Well, for once Id agree with him, Barbara. If there are any of those crew members left we should get in touch with them. 
BARBARA: Ian! 
(The thing that had been looking at the Tardis is behind them) 
KOQUILLION: You are strangers here. Answer my question. Do you come from Earth? 
BARBARA: Yes. Yes, we do. 
KOQUILLION: Where is your rocket ship? 
IAN: Youve just come out of the cave. You must have seen it. 
KOQUILLION: You landed herein that box? 
BARBARA: Well I know it sounds fantastic, but we have no reason to lie to you. 
IAN: Well, obviously youve had a good look around. Did you see any sign of another ship having landed? 
KOQUILLION: Are there any other crewmembers? 
IAN: Yes, there is. There's one more and hes back in the ship. 
KOQUILLION: I would like to meet him. Go and fetch him. I will take you all to the city. 
IAN: Coming, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
(But the creature actually blocks her way, holding something like a wrench) 
KOQUILLION: Why are you frightened? 
BARBARA: Keep away. 
KOQUILLION: I am your friend. You can trust me. 
BARBARA: Can I? (The creature pushes Barbara over the ledge)

[Tardis]

(The Doctor is examining the rock and making notes) 
DOCTOR: Oh, my writing gets worse and worse. Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear. Well, undoubtedly weve landed on the planet Dido. How remarkable. Well, I must say. itll be rather nice to meet these friendly people again after all these years. Fancy landing back here again. I wonder if I were to tell Ian that it was deliberate, whether hed believe me or not? Oh no, of course, I was asleep. Oh, pity, pity, pity.

[Ledge]

(Koquillion uses his wrench, and there is an explosion in the passage to the cave)

[Cave]

DOCTOR: Chesterton! Chesterton! Where are you, my dear boy? Oh, I cant, oh, I cant see anything. 
(The Doctor goes back inside the Tardis.) 
(Meanwhile, Barbara is unconscious at the bottom of the cliff, holding a broken branch. The shadow of another person falls over her) 
(The Doctor comes out of the Tardis with a torch) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton! Oh, my dear fellow, are you all right? 
IAN: Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Where is she? 
IAN: Barbara. I thought she was with me. I, I heard her scream 
DOCTOR: Steady, steady, steady. 
IAN: I went back and an explosion. 
DOCTOR: Come on, come on, get your breath back. Now, now then, you all right? 
IAN: Yes 
DOCTOR: well, let's try and look for her, shall we? 
IAN: Yes, it'sthis way. 
DOCTOR: Be careful now, be careful. Oh, good gracious, the whole roofs fallen in! 
IAN: This blocks the cave! Barbara! 
(Ian tries to move the rocks) 
DOCTOR: Oh, I hope we shant get another fall. I dont think the Tardis is likely to 
IAN: No use. Doctor, this wasnt an accident. 
DOCTOR: What are you talking about, my boy? 
IAN: Oh it was athing, a repulsive thing with ahideous face. 
DOCTOR: With hands and feet like claws? 
IAN: Yes, that's it. How do you know? 
DOCTOR: Well, this is the planet Dido. Ive been here before, I know them very well. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: Theyre very friendly people. 
IAN: Friendly? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: Oh, it certainly wasnt friendly to us. Must have kept Barbara back. That scream. Barbara! 
DOCTOR: Oh dont for heavens sake start scratching there. Try and find another way out. This thing, was it armed? 
IAN: No, no, it wasnt. Wait a minute, it was carrying some sort of jewelled club. About so long. 
DOCTOR: With a big head, resembling a spanner? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: I dont know why you bother to ask. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that may account for this. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: When I was here last time, if I remember rightly, theyd just perfected this thing. Its a ray, used in construction work. 
IAN: Ahh. 
DOCTOR: Now look here, what about Barbara, are you all right? Are you capable? 
IAN: Yes, Im not too bad. 
DOCTOR: Come along. Dont just sit there, my dear boy, stand up, stand up. Come along, thats it, mind your head. Its only dust. No bones broken. 
IAN: Thank you. Doctor. The most thorough-going medical Ive ever had. 
DOCTOR: Yes, its a pity I didnt get that degree, isnt it? Excuse me. 
IAN: You say these people were friendly? 
DOCTOR: Really. Very friendly people. 
IAN: If thats a sample, Ill take the Daleks anytime. 
DOCTOR: Now look here, you take yourself off there and try and find Barbara. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Come along and be careful. 
IAN: Yeah, we need to be careful. These people are dangerous. 
DOCTOR: But why? What could have happened to changed them? I wonder.

[Spaceship living quarters]

(Vicki is making a bed when she hears a noise. She grabs some stones and pretends to be examining them when -) 
KOQUILLION: You have been outside. Stand up! What were you doing? 
VICKI: Walking. 
KOQUILLION: In future, you will go no further than fifty yards from this ship. Do you understand? You were dragging something. A sack. 
VICKI: Oh, just some stones, I collect them. Theyre very beautiful. 
KOQUILLION: Im going to talk to Bennett. Remember you both owe your lives to me. 
VICKI: I heard a sound from the mountain. An explosion. 
KOQUILLION: A space machine has arrived. 
VICKI: People? 
KOQUILLION: A warlike people. They wanted to pillage the ship! I could not save them from my people, as I do Bennett and yourself. Theyre walled up in a cave. If theyre not dead already, they will die of hunger and thirst. 
VICKI: I bet you never gave them a chance, you could have (he raises the club) Im sorry. 
KOQUILLION: Remember, I am the only one who can save you from my people. You should be grateful. I am your only protection!

[Spaceship corridor]

BENNETT [OC]: You cant come in. 
KOQUILLION: It is Koquillion! Open the door.

[Spaceship living quarters]

(Vicki listens at the door to the corridor, then goes back to the bed she made and removes blankets to reveal Barbara) 
VICKI: Koquillion has just seen me helping you here. I knew he would. I knew. He knows everything. Everything! 
BARBARA: Well, tell me 
VICKI: Shh! Hell hear you. 
BARBARA: Oh, all right. 
VICKI: Please, stay there. He might come back. You dont know him like I do. 
BARBARA: Yes, but listen, whats your name? 
VICKI: Vicki. 
BARBARA: Is that short for Victoria? 
VICKI: No, just Vicki. V,I,C,K,I. 
BARBARA: Im Barbara. Look, tell me more about this Koquillion. 
VICKI: He just keeps us here, Bennett and me. Theres a rescue ship on the way. He doesnt know about that. But hell find out. I know he will. 
BARBARA: But why does he keep you here? 
VICKI: They, they killed all the crew. We, when we landed, we made contact here. Everyone on board was invited to a grand sort of meeting. I couldnt go, I was ill, a fever or something. I stayed here that night. I remember waking up. A thunderstorm, I thought, but it was an explosion. Bennett. Bennett dragged himself back. I was ill for days, I didnt know about it til later. I came around andfound Bennett. He cant walk. We just wait, and then Koquillion. 
(she falls sobbing into Barbara's arms) 
BARBARA: Well, if his people killed all your crew, why did, doesnt he kill you. 
VICKI: We dont know. My father was taking me. My father. (she dries her eyes) Your ship. Is your ship still here? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
VICKI: Ive just remembered. He told me. Didnt you hear him? They, they've killed all your crew too.

[Cave passage]

IAN: Oh, I wonder how much further, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I cant understand it. I just cant understand it. Violence is totally alien to people on this planet. 
IAN: Oh, well, people change, Doctor. New leader, different set of circumstances. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, my dear Chesterton, no. All the more reason for people on this planet to hate death and destruction. My dear boy, when I was here before, the, what, the total population amounted to, a handle of people. Merely a hundred. 
IAN: Is that all? 
DOCTOR: Yes, exactly. All the more reason for holding onto life. Peace, friendship, happiness. This means everything to the people here. 
IAN: Yes. Yes, I see what you mean. Well, you ready to carry on? 
DOCTOR: Me? Carry on? My dear fellow, it was you that stopped.

[Spaceship living quarters]

VICKI: Sorry, Barbara, I forgot all about your cuts and bruises. 
BARBARA: Oh it could be worse. Its the arm mainly. I must have strained it catching hold of that tree to break my fall. 
VICKI: There. Hows that? 
BARBARA: That feels much better. 
VICKI: I wonder if Koquillion's gone? 
BARBARA: What are the other people like? 
VICKI: Mmm? Oh, hes the only one we see. They live quite near here, I believe but, well, I dont know. This fires a flare. 
BARBARA: Is that for the rescue ship? 
VICKI: Yes, I always keep it ready. Theres room to land round here, you know. 
BARBARA: Itll all be ending for you soon then. 
VICKI: Yes. 
BARBARA: Well, you dont sound very sure. 
VICKI: Theres always Koquillion. He could stop us. He could keep me here forever. What are you looking like that for? 
BARBARA: Like what? 
VICKI: Youre sorry for me, arent you? Im perfectly all right, you know. I dont care if nobody ever comes, Im fine. Im perfectly all right. (They hear a noise) 
VICKI: Quick! 
(She hides Barbara under the blankets again) 
VICKI: Oh, Bennett. 
BENNETT: Hes gone. He tried to get things out of me but I didnt tell him. 
VICKI: No. 
BENNETT: I didnt tell him about the rescue ship. 
VICKI: No. 
BENNETT: He told me about the people on the mountain. Hes killed them. Weve got to stick together, Vicki. Hes killed them. 
VICKI: No, he hasnt, Bennett. Not all of them anyway. 
(And she reveals Barbara)

[Cave passageway]

IAN: The ledge is narrowing out now, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Whats that, my boy, What? Whats that? 
(The Doctor slips, and Ian grabs him.) 
IAN: Oh, oh, careful! 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you! I say, look, have you noticed the ledge? Its narrowing out. 
IAN: Yes, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Wait, wait. 
IAN: Huh? 
DOCTOR: Point the torch, shine it down there. You see that? Its quite a chasm. 
IAN: Yes. It certainly is. Not very much to hold onto here either. We'll just have to keep ourselvespressed against the rock face. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, if I pressed myself any harder against this thing I would be doing myself an injury. 
(There's a roar) 
IAN: What was that? 
DOCTOR: Well, its not me, is it. Shine the torch down there! 
(The torch reveals another one of Koquillion's race, but with no legs) 
DOCTOR: What 
IAN: Whats that nightmare? 
DOCTOR: Isnt it sufficient that itits down there and were up here? Hmm? 
IAN: Yes. Its got eyes. I saw them. Green. Used to daylight. Must have come in from the outside. 
DOCTOR: Oh. Very good, yes. Very intelligent reasoning. So good I might have said the same thing myself. 
IAN: Got to get out of here. What we need are some good handholds. Oh, here we are, all provided. 
(There are carvings with rings in them) 
IAN: You're right, Doctor. Somebodys been this way before. 
DOCTOR: Well, now, be careful. 
IAN: Yes I will, just hold onto that. (the torch.) Try this. Its all right. 
IAN: Yes. Give me the torch. Swing yourself over. All right? Okay? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
(Ian reaches for the third handle.) 
IAN: Watch this one. Its loose. Oh! hurry up, Ive pulled it out! 
DOCTOR: What? 
IAN: Oh, Im over. Can you manage? 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, it's oil. Its got oil on it. 
IAN: Whats that noise? 
DOCTOR: Come back here. Theyve trapped you into pulling this thing out. 
IAN: Whats that noise, Doctor? I 
(Ian is trapped between two lots of horizontal metal spikes coming straight out of the wall in front and behind him) 
DOCTOR: Dont go any further! 
IAN: What? I cant go either way! 
(More spikes come out of the wall, from ground to hip level) 
IAN: Doctor, Theyre pushing me towards the edge!

Episode Two - Desperate Measures

[Cave passageway]

(Ian puts a hand on the spikes) 
IAN: Doctor, theyre razor sharp! 
DOCTOR: Take your coat off, my boy, and throw it over the blades. 
IAN: Hold the torch for me please. 
DOCTOR: Right. Now swing yourself round. 
IAN: Give me a hand. 
DOCTOR: Come on, come on, come on. 
(Ian manages to swing round the spikes) 
IAN: Thanks. I thought Id had it. What do you think this is for? 
DOCTOR: Ive no idea. Ive never seen it before in my life. 
IAN: I suppose this operates the knives. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. Weve got to get this thing back in its place. 
IAN: The executioner sounds disappointed. 
DOCTOR: Yes, never mind about all that. Come on, give me a hand. Barbaras still outside. She might be in grave danger.

[Spaceship living quarters]

(Bennett is on the bunk with Barbara checking for a heartbeat) 
VICKI: Is he, is he dead? 
BARBARA: No, it must have been the strain of walking out here made him collapse. How do you feel? 
VICKI: This is Barbara, Bennett. 
BENNETT: Koquillion told me of your arrival. Hes killed your friends. 
BARBARA: I dont think so. Im sure theyre all right. 
BENNETT: Koquillion doesnt make mistakes. 
BARBARA: Well he did about me. You know, the next time he visits us, we might be able to surprise him. He doesnt know Im here, does he, so we could set a trap and overpower him. 
BENNETT: No, no. 
VICKI: Its a marvellous idea, isnt it, Bennett. 
BENNETT: No! 
BARBARA: Well, surely its worth a try? You wouldnt be any worse off than you are now. 
BENNETT: The Mir rescue ship is due to arrive, or hasnt Vicki told you that. We have to sit still, do as he says. Maybe well have a chance of escaping, get back to Earth. 
VICKI: We could still go. 
BENNETT: Youre just a child, you dont know what youre talking about. We get rid of Koquillion, we gain nothing. If the plan fails, he kills us. 
VICKI: Bennetts right, Barbara. 
BENNETT: Course Im right. Just because I lie on that bed all day doesnt mean Ive lost the use of my brain. Help me to my room, please.

[Spaceship corridor]

BENNETT: You will do as Koquillion says, wont you? Now you do understand the consequences? Thank you. 
BARBARA: Ill help you to your bed. 
BENNETT: Im all right. I said, Im all right! I can manage. 
(Bennett slams the door in Barbara's face) 
VICKI: Id better go and collect the water, it gets dark early on Dido. Will you lay the table, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Yes. Yes, all right. 
VICKI: Ill show you where the things are.

[Cave passageway]

DOCTOR: There you are. I think thats got it back. Watch! 
(The blades retract) 
IAN: Yes. Youve done it, Doctor. There they go. Well, lets hope there arent any more surprises like that waiting for us. Come on. 
(The doctor stops to examine the rock carving where the blades had come out.) 
IAN: Well, come on, Doctor. (Meanwhile, Vicki is carrying jerry-cans of water whilst being watched by a Didonian, again with no legs) 
IAN: Daylight, Doctor! We must be nearly there. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think youre right. Chesterton! 
IAN: Look out, Doctor. Dont go too near the edge. 
DOCTOR: Oh, right. Look, theres a door. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: Now that must lead somewhere. 
IAN: Yes, it is. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but therell be no time to open that. No, come on, let's go the obvious way. 
IAN: All right. 
DOCTOR: Go on, go on. 
IAN: Now mind this edge. 
DOCTOR: Just so long as nobody starts creeping up behind us.

[Spaceship living quarters]

(Through the porthole, Barbara spots a Didonian about to pounce on Vicki. She grabs the flare gun from the cupboard and runs outside)

[Outside the spaceship]

BARBARA: Vicki! 
VICKI: No! No dont! No! 
(Barbara shoots the Didonian)

[Cave passageway]

(Ian and the Doctor hear the shot and death cry echoing) 
DOCTOR: What was that? 
IAN: Horrible. 
DOCTOR: What is it? 
IAN: Come on.

[Spaceship living quarters]

VICKI: You killed Sandy. Why? What made you? 
BARBARA: He was almost on top of you! 
VICKI: How could you do it? Sandy only wanted some food. 
BARBARA: But he was going to attack you! 
VICKI: Sandy only ever eat plants. I trained him to come here for food. 
BARBARA: Well, I didnt know that did I? I mean, how could I? 
VICKI: I shouted, you wouldnt listen. 
BARBARA: Look, all I could see was its jaws. Anyway it suddenly started screeching I thought that 
VICKI: You killed him! You killed him! 
(The Doctor and Ian enter) 
DOCTOR: Barbara! 
BARBARA: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara! 
IAN: Barbara! 
BARBARA: Oh Doctor, youre all right! 
DOCTOR: Oh, Ive never felt better in my life! 
(Koquillion comes out of the door in the cave passageway, follows their footprints to the ledge, and looks down on the spaceship)

[Spaceship living quarters]

DOCTOR: Thats better, thats better. Now blow your nose and wipe your face. Thats it. I dont like saying it, my dear, but you do look a bit of a mess, you know. 
IAN: Yes, cheer up, Vicki. And dont forget, if old Kokylikin comes round, Ive always got this. 
VICKI: You mustnt, Ian. I keep telling you why we did what he said. You'll spoil it, youll spoil everything. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now. Its going to be all right. Were not going to jeopardise your safety or your rescue. Now, first of all, Id like to have a talk with this Mister Bennett of yours. 
VICKI: Oh, I keep 
DOCTOR: Will you take me to him? 
VICKI: I keep telling you, the rescue ship's on its way. Its going to take us back to Earth. Cant you understand? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BARBARA: Look Vicki, I know youve been here a long time, but you're underestimating what Koquillion can do. 
VICKI: Yes, youre right. Ive been here a long time. I know what its like here. Youve only just come and youre trying to ruin things. It was all right before. It was. The rescue ship's coming and nobody asked you to come here. Nobody. 
DOCTOR: Now, Vicki. 
VICKI: Go away. 
(Ian and Barbara leave) 
DOCTOR: Vicki, my dear. Sit down. You dont mean that, do you? Well, do you? Mmm? Good, good. Now, Ive listened to all youve said and Ive thoroughly understood. Were here to help you. This is all were going to try to do. You know, were not going to ruin things for you. 
VICKI: Bennett says that when we get back weve got to tell them on Earth what they did to us here. He thinks this planet should be wiped out. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
VICKI: He says Koquillion shouldnt be made to get away with what hes done to us. 
DOCTOR: I think I agree with Bennett, at least about Koquillion. But dont you think theres just a chance, just a little chance that my ideas might prove the better ones? Hmm? Good, good. Now, Ill go and have a talk with Mister Bennett and I promise you, Ill listen to everything he says. Hmm? 
VICKI: Ill take you to him. 
DOCTOR: Splendid.

[Spaceship corridor]

DOCTOR: Yes, well now, I dont think you need to wait, my dear. You go back with Ian and Barbara. Hmm? 
VICKI: Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Oh, now, now, now, You mustnt be like that. Youre not giving her much of a chance, are you? Shes nice, you know. Youll like her. 
VICKI: She killed Sandy. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, so might I have done! 
VICKI: No. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: Well, you havent got the sort of face that kills things 
DOCTOR: And Barbara has, I suppose. Ay? You know she was frightened, frightened for your safety. She thought you were going to be hurt. Good gracious me, you mustnt behave like that. Now, look here, I think the best thing for you to do is to pop along back there, dont you, hmm? Eh? You must believe what Barbara did, try and understand my dear, and why she did it. Just for me, eh? 
(The Doctor knocks on Bennett's door) 
DOCTOR: Mister Bennett? 
BENNETT [OC]: You cant come in. 
(The Doctor forces the door open, but it sticks) 
DOCTOR: I want to talk to you. Oh dear. 
(He finds a piece of girder and uses it as a battering ram)

[Spaceship living quarters]

(Ian and Barbara enter) 
IAN: The Doctor gone to see Miser Bennett? 
VICKI: Yes, I took him. 
IAN: Good, good. 
VICKI: Barbara? 
BARBARA: Yes? 
VICKI: Im sorry. Really I am. 
BARBARA: Im sorry too, about Sandy. 
VICKI: Well, you didnt know. Im afraid Ive got rather used to being on my own. 
IAN: We know how you feel Vicki. We felt the same way ourselves at first. 
VICKI: At first? I dont understand. Youre from Earth too, arent you? 
BARBARA: Yes, but it goes a bit deeper than that. 
VICKI: How do you mean? 
BARBARA: Well, what was the year when you left Earth? 
VICKI: 2493, of course. My mother had just died and Daddy wanted to get away so he took a job on the planet Astra. 
IAN: You were on your way there and you crashed here? 
VICKI: Yes. But why did you ask me the year? What year did you leave? 
IAN: Well, you see Vicki, our space ship, well, isnt like this one. It travels through time. 
BARBARA: We left in 1963. 
VICKI: 1963! But that means youre about five hundred and fifty years old. 
BARBARA: Why, yes, I suppose I am. Yes, its a way of looking at it, but Ill try not to look at it too often. 
VICKI: They didnt have time machines in 1963, they didnt know anything then. 
IAN: Oh, we werent entirely ignorant, young lady. Even the Doctor thought it was worth paying us a visit. Thats how we got mixed up with him in the first place. 
BARBARA: The Doctors from a different age, a different planet altogether. 
VICKI: I dont believe you at all, youre joking with me. The Doctor, a time traveller? 
IAN + BARBARA: Yes!

[Bennett's quarters]

(The Doctor finds the room is empty, so he does a search) 
DOCTOR: What have we here? Tape recordings for what? 
(He presses play) 
BENNETT [OC]: You cant come in. 
(Then he turns up the volume on a receiver) 
VICKI [OC]: Oh yes, I like the Doctor.

[Spaceship living quarters]

VICKI: Its funny, but as soon as he walked in, I felt that you could trust him. But why does he wear those funny clothes? And that long white hair. 
BARBARA: Vicki, Ive told you, the Doctor comes from another time.

[Bennett's quarters]

VICKI [OC]: Oh, dont start that again. 
DOCTOR: Silly child, silly child. 
DOCTOR: Intercom systems, tape recordings. Now, I wonder what else, hmm? 
(He finds a lever that opens a trap door in the floor) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see, an easy way to get out of a locked room.

[Spaceship living quarters]

IAN: Theyre taking a long time arent they? 
VICKI: I dont think we should disturb them. 
IAN: Well, they can always tell me to go away.

[Spaceship corridor]

IAN: Doctor? Mister Bennett? Can I come in? Doctor? Doctor!

[Bennett's quarters]

IAN: Theyve gone! 
(Barbara and Vicki run in. The trapdoor is closed)

[Cave passageway]

(The Doctor goes through a door in the wall into)

[Chamber]

(Incense burning on pillars, decorated table, and altar and a chest full of vestments)

[Spaceship living quarters]

BARBARA: But where could they have gone to? 
VICKI: Perhaps Koquillion came. 
IAN: No, we would have heard him. Anyway, the Doctor would surely have warned us. 
BARBARA: He wouldnt go off without telling us. What do you think we ought to do? 
VICKI: I think we should stay here. 
IAN: No. Go back to the Tardis. In the end, the Doctorll make for that. Come on, quickly.

[Chamber]

DOCTOR: Come in. Come in, wont you? Ive been waiting to talk to you. 
(Koquillion enters behind the Doctor) 
DOCTOR: This used to be the Peoples Hall of Judgement. Fitting, in the present circumstances dont you think, hmm? Mister Bennett, may I remind you that masks and robes such as you are wearing are only used on absolutely ceremonial occasions, hmm? 
(Bennett removes the mask) 
BENNETT: Are you finished? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I had hoped that you would continue. This elaborate plan must have been conceived for some reason. What, hmm? 
BENNETT: To save my life. I killed a crewmember on the spaceship to Astra. I was arrested. The ship crashed. My crime hadnt been radioed to Earth. I knew if I could get rid of the other crewmembers. 
DOCTOR: Get rid of the other crewmembers and blame their deaths on the Dido people, hmm? 
BENNETT: When we crash landed, the inhabitants invited us all to a grand meeting. It was simple. I just arranged an explosive, using the ships armaments. The whole thing went up. All the inhabitants, the crew, the whole race. 
DOCTOR: You destroyed a whole planet to save your own skin. Youre insane. 
BENNETT: The girl didnt know Id been arrested. When we get back to Earth, shed support my story. I dressed up as Koquillion to show her how terrible the people here were. 
DOCTOR: If that happened, your guilt would have been hidden forever, hmm? 
BENNETT: If it happened? Nothing's changed. Theres only three more people for Koquillion to kill, thats all. 
(They struggle for the club, and there is an explosion. The club is broken in the fall. The Doctor and Bennett fight, with Bennett easily overpowering him and starting to choke him when two people dressed in white appear) 
BENNETT: No! I thought Id killed all of you! 
(Bennett flees, and there's a scream. Presumably he fell off that narrow ledge outside. The Doctor passes out)

[Tardis]

BARBARA: Hes coming round. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Barbara, Ian. Were back in the ship, eh? 
IAN: Yes, I took the liberty of borrowing your key. 
BARBARA: Doctor, we found you outside. 
DOCTOR: Yes, thats, they left me outside. 
IAN: They? Who? 
DOCTOR: Oh, er, two strangers. Yes, Bennetts dead. Bennett was Koquillion, you know. 
IAN: What? Bennett Koquillion? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: What, well, why, why, Doctor? 
BARBARA: No, no, no, no, not now Ian, Hes in no condition to answer questions. 
DOCTOR: The girl, Vicki, now. Did you, did you bring her? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Where? 
BARBARA: Shes waiting outside. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I must get some fresh air. Yes, I want to have a talk with that child. 
IAN: Are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, now dont fuss especially, Im quite all right, my boy. Im quite all right. 
(The Doctor leaves) 
BARBARA: Ian, what about Vicki? I wish we could take her with us. Hmm? Well, we cant leave her here, can we?

[Cave]

DOCTOR: Thats about what happened, and thats all. 
VICKI: Then Bennett murdered my father. Then Ive got nobody. 
DOCTOR: My dear. My dear, why dont you come with us, hmm? 
VICKI: In that old box? 
DOCTOR: We can travel anywhere and everywhere in that old box as you call it. Regardless of space and time. 
VICKI: Then it is a time machine? 
DOCTOR: And if you like adventure, my dear, I can promise you an abundance of it. Apart from all that, well youll be amongst friends. Hmm? Well? Now, suppose I leave you here for a moment to think about it, hmm?

[Tardis]

BARBARA: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes? 
BARBARA: We were talking about Vicki and we were wondering whether 
IAN: Yes, do you think er, Vicki 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, I can see that weve all reached the same decision. Now, I suggest we try and get the answer from the child, hmm? Vicki? Vicki, my dear, come in. 
VICKI: But its huge! And, well, the outside is just, well 
BARBARA: Vicki, are you going to come with us? 
VICKI: Oh I, Id like to. Yes, if youll have me.

[Spaceship living quarters]

CAPTAIN [OC]: Rescue ship to Dido. Rescue ship to Dido. Come in please. This is rescue ship calling Dido. Rescue ship calling Dido. 
(The men in white enter) 
CAPTAIN [OC]: Come in please. Dido, can you hear me? This is rescue ship calling 
(The men smash the radio.)

[Tardis]

(in flight) 
IAN: So there were survivors on Dido? Bennett didnt kill them all? 
DOCTOR: They have their planet back to themselves again. And somehow I dont think they will allow that rescue ship to land. Well. 
IAN: Hmm. That isnt why you brought Vicki along with us, is it Doctor? 
DOCTOR: No, Chesterton, no, it wasnt the reason. We shall be materialising quite soon. Perhaps we shall be able to get a rest this time.


(The Tardis materialises over the edge of a small cliff and begins to wobble)
[Tardis]

DOCTOR: There we are, safely down. 
IAN: What's that movement, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
IAN: Well, surely you can feel it? 
DOCTOR: What movement? 
BARBARA: Doctor! What's happening? 
(they all sway from side to side) 
IAN: Take off again, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Hold on, hold on, hold on! 
(Everyone gets thrown to the floor as the Tardis finally loses it's balance and tumbles over)

Episode One - The Slave Traders

(Time has passed and the Tardis is overgrown.)

[Villa]

(Ian is in a toga, reclining, and eating a bunch of grapes. The Doctor is also in local garb, watering a pot plant) 
DOCTOR: So you're awake at last, young man. 
IAN: No need to say it like that, Doctor. I thought the whole idea of us coming here was that we should all have a nice rest. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, there's a great deal of difference between resting and being sort of, bone idle! 
IAN: Well, have a grape. 
DOCTOR: No, thank you, I've had my breakfast. 
IAN: Where are Barbara and Vicki? They gone down to the village? Don't you think that plant's had enough water, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: The answer, dear boy, is pipes. 
IAN: Pipes? 
DOCTOR: Pipes, Chesterton, pipes! 
IAN: Oh. 
DOCTOR: You see, the Romans, unfortunately, didn't know how to transport water satisfactorily. That's why they built their aqueducts. Now, if they'd experimented with pipes. 
IAN: Oh, I see what you're getting at, yes. 
DOCTOR: Good, good, yes, yes, they have. 
IAN: I beg your pardon? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear young man, why do you let your mind wander so? You asked me just now if Barbara and Vicki had gone down to the village. I gave you a plain and simple answer. Yes, they have.

[Road]

(Vicki is full of energy and picking plants. The road is very smooth and well paved) 
VICKI: Come on, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Oh, Vicki, there's no need to be in such a hurry. The village isn't going to run away. Phew, its so hot. 
VICKI: It's just that I want to get there before the market closes. 
BARBARA: All right, we'll get there, but not so fast. 
(Barbara sits on a convenient bench) 
VICKI: Oh, come on. Honestly, you're getting as bad as Ian. 
BARBARA: Oh, what's that supposed to mean? 
VICKI: Well, the way you spoke I thought we were going to have adventures and see things. We've been here nearly a month and all everyone wants to do is sit around and rest. 
BARBARA: Oh, Vicki. Look, the adventures come without us looking for them. And you're finding out what it was like to live in Roman times. 
VICKI: Oh, yes, in one little village miles away from Rome. 
(in the bushes, a man unsheathes his dagger) 
VICKI [OC]: How much longer do you think the Doctor will stay here, Barbara? 
BARBARA [OC]: Oh, I've no idea. You can never tell with the Doctor. You just have to wait and see. 
VICKI [OC]: What are you going to buy at the market?

[Village market]

(A white-haired man is playing a lyre as two men with heavy cloaks look around the bustling market) 
DIDIUS: (a small man with a beard) This is too small a place, Sevcheria. I can't see us finding what we want here. 
SEVCHERIA: (bigger, with a deep voice) It's our last chance before Rome. 
DIDIUS: Why? We pass through much bigger towns. 
SEVCHERIA: Yes, and with legal representation. If we raid them, the repercussions will put us out of business. 
DIDIUS: Then let's go back. 
SEVCHERIA: Didius, the slaves we've already brought from Gaul are in no condition for further travel, and the quality is such we shall have to take far below the market price as it is. 
(Barbara and Vicki arrive, and get noticed) 
DIDIUS: The two women. Yes, very suitable, I agree. I doubt even the possibility. 
SEVCHERIA: It will do no harm to make enquiries, Didius. 
VICKI: This would make a nice dress. Don't you think so, Barbara? 
BARBARA: Are you any good at dressmaking? 
VICKI: No, but I thought you might be. 
BARBARA: Oh, I see. Well, what sort of style would you like? 
VICKI: I don't know. What were the fashions like when you left London? 
BARBARA: London? Never heard of it. 
VICKI: But you told me that that's where you came from. 
BARBARA: Ah, you mean Londinium. When in Rome? 
SELLER: (a woman) Can I help you? 
VICKI: Yes, how much is this, please? 
SELLER: Well, now, what would you consider to be a fair price? Bearing in mind it's the only length of its kind and the finest quality available. 
VICKI: Yes, I know but how much are you asking? 
SELLER: Well, its very difficult to put a price on something like this. It's very hard to come by. 
BARBARA: Yes, I'm sure it is. We'll think about it and come back later. 
SELLER: Hey, one moment, please! 
VICKI: Barbara, please, can't we buy it? 
BARBARA: You should have learned by now that the price is much fairer when you're not so eager to buy. 
VICKI: What? Can we go back and buy it now? 
BARBARA: No, not just yet. 
SEVCHERIA: Good day to you. A fine selection. 
SELLER: None finer this side of Rome. 
SEVCHERIA: No, thank you. My friend and I are not interested in buying cloth today. We are buying information. 
DIDIUS: The two who were just here. Do you know them? 
SELLER: By sight, not name. 
DIDIUS: But they do live here? 
SELLER: Yes. They moved into a villa just north of the town about a month ago. The owner, Flavius Guiscard is away campaigning in Gaul. We reckon they're friends of his looking after the house. 
SEVCHERIA: How many of them are there? 
(coins change hands) 
SELLER: Four. There are two men with them. 
DIDIUS: Young? 
(more coins) 
SELLER: One of them is. They sell the produce of the gardens to the townsfolk here. Very cheaply too. They must be fools. 
SEVCHERIA: But you've no idea where they come from? 
SELLER: None. At least, not until today. (coin) One of the women mentioned a town. Londinium, I think she said. Do you know it? 
SEVCHERIA: Thank you. You have been most helpful. 
DIDIUS: The town they spoke of is in a place they call Britannia. 
SEVCHERIA: They are Britons. Perfect.

[Road]

(The old man with the lyre is waylaid by the ruffian who was hiding in the bushes, and killed)

[Villa]

DOCTOR: Wonderful feast, my dear. I don't know when I've enjoyed a meal more. What was it? 
BARBARA: Well, the main course was breast of peacock. 
IAN: Delicious. 
BARBARA: With an orange and juniper sauce. 
DOCTOR: Oh, exquisite. 
BARBARA: Garnished with larks tongues and baked pomegranates 
DOCTOR: Oh, fabulous, my dear, absolutely fabulous. What was it we had before, the sort of hors d'oeuvres, so to speak? 
VICKI: That isn't its name. French isn't invented yet. 
DOCTOR: Tut, tut, tut, tut child. Barbara, what was it? Hmm? 
BARBARA: Ant's eggs in hibiscus honey. 
DOCTOR: Oh, absolutely. What did you say? 
IAN: Ant's eggs, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's what I thought she said. Ant's eggs. What do you think I am, a goldfish, hmm? 
IAN: Doctor, there's one thing I wanted to ask you. 
DOCTOR: Well, go ahead my boy. 
IAN: Now, er, what about the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Well, what about it, hmm? 
IAN: Well, don't you think we ought to go and have a look at it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, so you want to move on, do you? 
IAN: Move on? Certainly not. I'd like to stay here as long as possible. 
DOCTOR: Good, that's settled. Settled. Fine. 
BARBARA: All the same, Doctor, I know what Ian means. It's been three or four weeks since we left the Tardis. 
IAN: Yes, it's not even the right way up. 
DOCTOR: How many times do I have to tell you that the Tardis is quite safe where it is. It can take off from any angle. I've never known such a pair of worriers. Really. Good heavens, I can't wait to get away for a couple of days from you. You keep on and on and on and on and on. Gracious me, really. 
(the Doctor leaves) 
IAN: Going away? Do you know anything about this? 
BARBARA: No. Not a thing. 
IAN: Vicki? 
VICKI: No, he hasn't said anything to me. Can't say I blame him though. 
BARBARA: Blame him for what? 
VICKI: Well, its all right living here, but its boring! No wonder he gets irritable. 
IAN: Ha. That's got nothing to do with living here, believe me. Doctor? You there? 
(The Doctor re-enters and fills a bag with food from the table) 
DOCTOR: Well, I think these should last me two or three days, hmm? 
IAN: You never told us you were going away. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Well, I don't know that I was under any obligation to report my movements to you, Chesterfield. 
BARBARA: Chesterton. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Barbara's calling you. 
VICKI: Where are you going, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: To Rome, my child. 
VICKI: Oh, can I come with you? I won't be any trouble, I promise. Can I? 
DOCTOR: Well, I. 
VICKI: Please? 
DOCTOR: Hmm. Very well, then, very well, 
IAN: Well, perhaps we'd all better come with you to Rome. 
DOCTOR: But my dear chap, you just turned down my invitation. 
IAN: I did? 
DOCTOR: Yes, you said how glad you would be to stay here as long as possible. 
BARBARA: Oh no, Doctor, that was before we knew your plans. Don't you think it would be safer if Ian and I 
DOCTOR: What is this, what is this now? I know what you're insinuating. Yes, that I'm not capable of taking care of myself, ay? Huh! Safer indeed. Afraid to let me out of your sight, are you? Want to be my nursemaids? Well now, let me tell me something. I won't stand for it. Indeed, I will not stand for it. You want to go to Rome? Go. Go yourselves. 
VICKI: Doctor, if you feel that 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course, my dear, come along. Let's set about our packing, shall we? Come on, then. Yes, you know, this is going to be your first exploration. You know, I think you'll like Rome. Rome is fascinating, most interesting. I remember once when I was there and I spoke to 
(Doctor and Vicki leave) 
BARBARA: Well, I certainly said the wrong thing. 
IAN: Oh, don't worry, Barbara. Anything you'd said would have been wrong. 
BARBARA: I suppose we're lucky really to have kept him inactive as long as we have. 
IAN: True, true. Still, he can say what he likes. He's enjoyed this rest as much as any of us. 
(Barbara is gazing at him) 
IAN: What's the matter? My slip showing? 
BARBARA: No, I was just thinking what a splendid looking Roman you make. 
IAN: Oh. Well, yes, if I wasn't so modest, I'd agree with you. 
BARBARA: It's a pity there's just one thing out of place. 
IAN: Oh, where? 
BARBARA: That hair. 
IAN: Hmm? 
BARBARA: It just doesn't go with those clothes. 
IAN: Oh, yes, I know that but I 
BARBARA: Come and sit down. 
IAN: Ay? 
BARBARA: Come and sit down. 
(She gets a comb with very long teeth out of a bag) 
IAN: Now just a minute, Barbara. 
BARBARA: It won't hurt, I got it in the market specially. 
IAN: Yes, but which market? (he falls off the seat) Ow! 
BARBARA: Oh, don't be such a baby. Come here. 
(she combs his hair forward, Roman-style) 
IAN: How long do you think the Doctor will be away? 
BARBARA: No idea. Why? 
IAN: Well, the owner of this house could come back before he does. I ouch. That hurts, you know! 
BARBARA: Sorry. Well, if he does come back, we can always go back to the Tardis. There. How's that? 
IAN: Feels awful. 
BARBARA: Well, why don't you go and look in the spring? 
(he checks his reflection in the fountain) 
IAN: Hey. Hey, that's not too bad. 
BARBARA: Well, it's all part of the service. I take in washing too. 
IAN: Not bad at all. (declaims Antony's speech from Act 3, Scene 2 of Julius Caesar) Friends, Romans, countrymen! Lend me your ears. I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him. 
BARBARA: Oh boy, that was a mistake.

[Roadside]

(at night) 
DIDIUS: I've finished feeding them, Sevcheria. 
SEVCHERIA: Good. They need all the fattening they can get. 
(they are talking about their slaves) 
SEVCHERIA: Not many in the consignment is there? 
DIDIUS: They're a poor looking bunch. 
SEVCHERIA: Ah well, if we're to get the four from the villa, we'd better get moving, Didius.

[Tent]

(They pick up their weapons) 
SEVCHERIA: As soon as we get back, we'll break camp. We shall be away from here tonight. 
DIDIUS: Before any local enquiries arise, is that the idea? 
SEVCHERIA: We'll make a slave trader of you yet, Didius. Come on, lets get them.

[Villa]

BARBARA: You know Ian, I could get used to this sort of life. 
IAN: Mmm. I already have. What about another drink? 
BARBARA: Oh, yes, I'd love one. Thank you. 
IAN: No ice, I'm afraid. 
BARBARA: There's some in the fridge. 
IAN: Ah. 
(Ian starts to leave the room before the penny drops) 
IAN: Very funny, very funny. 
BARBARA: You went! 
IAN: Well, here's to the first fridge. 
BARBARA: Cheers. 
IAN: O tempora, o mores. 
(there's a thud) 
IAN: Did you hear something, Barbara? 
BARBARA: No. Like what? 
IAN: There's someone out there. 
BARBARA: No, you must be imagining things. 
IAN: No, no, I'm not. Who's there? What do you want? 
(Didius comes in with his sword drawn) 
IAN: Who are you? 
BARBARA: Ian!? 
SEVCHERIA: Where are the others? 
BARBARA: They're not here, they've gone away. 
IAN: We can explain, if you put up your swords. 
SEVCHERIA: Did you hear that, Didius? They can explain. 
(Ian throws Didius in the fountain) 
IAN: Run Barbara! 
(Sevcheria and Ian fight. Barbara picks up a vase, and hits Ian with it by mistake) 
BARBARA: Oh, Ian! Ian! 
(Sevcheria puts Barbara over his shoulder) 
SEVCHERIA: Lets get them back to the camp. 
BARBARA: Ian, wake up!

[Road]

DOCTOR: Well, what have we here? 
VICKI: Just another dreary old statue. 
DOCTOR: No, it might be somebody famous, my child. 
DOCTOR: What's this? Wait there, dear. 
(The Doctor goes into the bushes and Vicki follows. They find the dead lyre player) 
VICKI: Oh, the poor man. 
DOCTOR: Yes, he's dead, and it doesn't look a natural death to me. 
VICKI: It's a lonely stretch of road. Maybe he was set upon by robbers? They did happen in this time, didn't they? 
DOCTOR: They did, my dear, yes, but that isn't the answer here. (picks up the lyre.) They've left his belongings too. 
VICKI: Maybe they didn't have time. 
DOCTOR: Oh, they had plenty of time to drag him off the road. 
VICKI: Doctor, I've seen him before. He was playing in the square when Barbara and I went to the market. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, there's nothing we can do for him now, my dear. No, nothing at all. 
(a figure approaches) 
DOCTOR: Stay here! 
VICKI: Be careful. 
DOCTOR: Good evening. Are you looking for somebody? Something? 
CENTURION: Why, yes, I am. 
DOCTOR: Tell me, do you always wave that sword about like that? 
CENTURION: What do you mean? 
DOCTOR: Well, you can easily kill someone. Swords are dangerous, you know. 
(The Centurion sheaths his sword) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, thank you, that's better. Now tell me, whom or what, er, you, er, were you looking for? 
CENTURION: Is that your lyre? 
DOCTOR: Why? Why, have you lost one? 
CENTURION: No, no, only if it is yours? 
DOCTOR: And what if it is, hmm? 
CENTURION: Why, it's you I'm looking for. 
DOCTOR: Oh. Oh, I see. Yes. 
CENTURION: You must be Maximus Pettulian from Corinth, whose skill as a musician is talked of even in Rome. 
DOCTOR: Really? Most interesting. 
CENTURION: We expected you in Assessium yesterday. When you failed to arrive, I sent my men out to search for you. I count it my good fortune that I've personally found you unharmed. 
DOCTOR: If I am the man you're looking for, tell me why should I be harmed, hmm? 
CENTURION: All roads to Rome are dangerous for travellers. When you sent word that you intended to make your way on foot, playing your lyre for the people, it caused great concern at court. 
DOCTOR: At court? 
CENTURION: Caesar Nero's court. The Emperor of all Rome is very concerned for your safe arrival. He looks forward to discussing your music with you. 
DOCTOR: The Emperor. Nero, eh? Ha, ha, yes, of course, I have heard that he that he plucks a string or two. Yes, yes. Oh, the child, she travels with me. She keeps her eye on all the lyres. 
CENTURION: Then if you're ready, we'll travel to Assessium and then my men will escort you the rest of the way. 
DOCTOR: Very well, we'll just attend to our imprimatur. 
VICKI: Doctor, I know this 
DOCTOR: At court, I must be very important. 
VICKI: Listen, I know he's mistaken you for that man, but we can't go with him. 
DOCTOR: But why not, my child? I'm sure he knows more about this business than he admits. And we shall never get a better chance of meeting Nero. 
VICKI: But Doctor, you don't even know your own name. 
DOCTOR: Oh, of course I do, my dear. It, it, it, it's 
CENTURION: Maximus Pettulian? If you're ready? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, quite, quite, my child. Yes.

[Tent]

BUYER: Quite a stroke of luck meeting your train here, it'll save me a trip into Rome. 
SEVCHERIA: Always assuming we can reach a satisfactory agreement. 
BUYER: I'll give you a fair price. We need the replacements urgently. 
SEVCHERIA: Three, you say? 
BUYER: Yes. How much for the British woman? 
DIDIUS: More than you can afford, friend. 
SEVCHERIA: The woman goes with us to Rome. You can follow and bid if you like. 
BUYER: No harm in asking, I say. All right, three men. Seven hundred. 
DIDIUS: Each?

[Roadside]

(Ian tests their shackles as the haggling goes on in the background) 
IAN: No good. We'll have to try something else. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: They say we're going to move tonight, Barbara. We'll escape then. 
BARBARA: Will we? 
IAN: Barbara, I know it looks bad, but 
BARBARA: Bad? Have you any idea how the Roman's treated their slaves? Or how many of them escaped? Besides, time is against us. 
IAN: The Doctor. 
BARBARA: I haven't been able to think about anything else. When he and Vicki get back from Rome and 
IAN: They'll wait for us. They must wait for us. 
BARBARA: Oh, yes, they'll wait for us. But for how long? 
(Didius checks Ian's shackle and slaps him)

[Tent]

BUYER: A thousand it is, and I have the choice. 
SEVCHERIA: Thank you. You've done yourself a good nights work. 
BUYER: You're robbing me and you know it. 
SEVCHERIA: Come on, let's inspect the goods.

[Roadside]

BUYER: I'll have these two and that one. 
SEVCHERIA: Didius? 
(Didius unshackles Ian) 
SEVCHERIA: Don't forget, you can bid for the woman in Rome if you like. 
IAN: Rome. I'll look for you in Rome. 
BUYER: Rome? I shan't be going anywhere near Rome. Come on then, march! 
BARBARA: Ian! Ian!

[Assessium Villa]

(the assassin enters) 
CENTURION: You fool! I went to where the body should have been and there he was alive. 
(the assassin is a mute) 
CENTURION: Nero pays well when better musicians than he are put out of the way, and you failed, you fool. But you're lucky this time. I brought him back here so you have another chance to earn your fee. Take it. Maximus Pettulian is in the room above. Fail me again and you'll lose more than your tongue.

[Assessium Villa - upstairs]

(outside the room where the Doctor is strumming) 
DOCTOR [OC]: I'm sure even Nero can play better than that!

Episode Two - All Roads Lead To Rome

[Assessium Villa - Doctor's room]

(The assassin is sneaking up behind the Doctor) 
DOCTOR: The answer is of course, is not to be caught playing it! 
(he turns and parries the sword with the lyre) 
DOCTOR: Oh, so you want a fight do you? 
(The Doctor hits the assassin over the head with a plant pot then wraps him in a blanket) 
DOCTOR: Come on, my friend. What's the matter with you? 
(The Doctor throws wine in his face then hits him over the head with the jar before dodging some wild sword swings) 
VICKI: Doctor, what's happening? 
(Vicki picks up an amphora, and the assassin jumps through the window) 
DOCTOR: Young lady, why did you have to come in and interrupt? Just as I'd got him all softened up and ready for the old one, two. 
VICKI: You're all right then? 
DOCTOR: All right? Of course, I'm all right, my child. You know, I am so constantly outwitting the opposition, I tend to forget the delights and satisfaction of the arts, the gentle art of fisticuffs. 
VICKI: I realise you're a man of many talents, Doctor, but I didn't know fighting was one of them. 
DOCTOR: My dear, I am one of the best. Do you know it was I that used to teach the Mountain Mauler of Montana! 
VICKI: The what? 
DOCTOR: Do you remember? Have you never heard? No, of course, no, no, of course you haven't, have you? No. Well, never mind, I think after all that wonderful exercise, I shall be able to get a very pleasant night's sleep. Right, off you go. Goodnight. 
VICKI: But Doctor, surely we're not going to stay here? 
DOCTOR: Why not? What, him? Oh, my dear child, I don't think he'll come back again. Oh, no. I think I can promise you that. 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor, I was coming to tell you another thing. You know the Centurion who brought us here? He seems to have gone, too. 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not surprised. It was he who obviously hired the man to kill me. Or rather to kill this fellow, Maximus what is it? Er. 
VICKI: Pettulian. 
DOCTOR: What? 
VICKI: Pettulian. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, of course, yes. I must remember that name. Yes. Goodnight. 
VICKI: But Doctor, if he wanted you dead, why didn't he take care of it himself? 
DOCTOR: Because this way he couldn't be charged with crime. 
VICKI: Yes, but if you were going to be killed anyway, I can't see that it 
DOCTOR: My dear, it was an accepted thing in this age to hire an assassin. Preferably, preferably someone dumb, and then he couldn't denounce you. 
VICKI: Ah, so he must have been looking in the bushes for the body when we first met him. 
DOCTOR: Just as I suspected at the time. Now, goodnight. And remember, we make an early start tomorrow. 
VICKI: You don't mean to say we're going on? 
DOCTOR: Oh, goodness me, goodness me, child, how you do talk. Yes, we are. 
VICKI: But they might try and kill you again. 
DOCTOR: Well, of course they might. But who am I to worry about such little things like that, hmm? Now then, there's one thing you've got to learn about me. When I say we go to Rome, then we go to Rome. Goodnight.

[Cells]

(In Rome, the slaves get locked into cages) 
SEVCHERIA: Wait here. 
BARBARA: Look, there's no more walking. You can rest now. 
WOMAN: Thank you, you're kind. You're very kind. 
(she has a persistent cough) 
SEVCHERIA: I'll have to see about getting you some new clothes. 
BARBARA: You needn't bother. 
SEVCHERIA: Ah, it's not for your sake. I want you looking special at the slave auction. 
(He locks Barbara in with the sick woman) 
WOMAN: Have we arrived? Is this Rome? 
BARBARA: Yes, this is Rome. How are you feeling? Are you more comfortable now? 
WOMAN: Much better. It's just this cough. It was a long march. Thirty four days it took us. Thirty four days. You said your friend would meet you here. 
BARBARA: Did I? 
WOMAN: Yes. On the road. You told me all about him. 
BARBARA: Yes, Ian. 
WOMAN: Strange name. I've never heard of it before. I hopes he finds you. 
BARBARA: If I ever see him again.

[Galley]

(at sea) 
MASTER: (to the beat of a drum) In, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in. Rest. That's right, make the best of it. There's supposed to be bad weather coming up. 
IAN: Five days, Delos. Five whole days. 
DELOS: Days, they soon melt into weeks, then months, then years. 
IAN: I've got to get away from here. 
DELOS: There's land, Ian. Ian, there's land. (everyone peers out of the rowlocks) It's a long way. 
IAN: I'm not a great swimmer Delos, but I'll take any risks, believe me. 
DELOS: If the plan works. 
IAN: Ah, there's only one way to find out, isn't there? 
(Delos cries out and collapses over the oar) 
IAN: Galley master! Galley master! He's dead. Dead! 
MASTER: Move away, let me see. 
(Ian tries to grab the galley master, but gets hit on the head) 
MASTER: You'll have to do better than that. 
DELOS: You alright, Ian? 
MASTER: Right! Prepare your oars. Ready? Row! 
MASTER: In, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out, in, out.

[Cells]

BARBARA: But you must try and eat something. 
WOMAN: There's not enough for two. Besides, I bain't hungry. 
BARBARA: Oh, come on. Look, don't be silly. 
WOMAN: Thank 'ee. 
(a bald aristocratic man is at the cage door) 
TAVIUS: What's your name young woman? Where do you come from? Young woman, I want to help you. Of course, you have to trust me. 
BARBARA: Would I, would I get out of here? 
TAVIUS: Oh yes. 
BARBARA: And be free to go where I choose? 
TAVIUS: No, I'm afraid not, you see, I should have to buy you. Now please, let me explain. 
BARBARA: I'm not interested. 
TAVIUS: But you will be when you hear my proposal. 
BARBARA: Oh, go away. I don't have to listen to you. 
SEVCHERIA: Greetings, Tavius. 
TAVIUS: That young woman. How much? 
SEVCHERIA: I'm sorry, Tavius. No private sales. She's to be sold by auction. 
TAVIUS: I'll give you a fair price. 
SEVCHERIA: Oh, I believe you would, but the answer's still no. 
TAVIUS: You think you'll get a higher figure than I can pay you? 
SEVCHERIA: We shall see at the auction then, won't we Tavius? 
(Tavius leaves) 
SEVCHERIA: Here. (gives her a new dress) 
BARBARA: There's only one. What about her? 
SEVCHERIA: She won't be wanting any new clothes. 
BARBARA: Why not? Where's she going? 
SEVCHERIA: She wouldn't fetch any price at all at the auction. She's to be taken to the circus and thrown in the arena.

[Galley]

(it's a big storm) 
MASTER: In, out. If anyone breaks time, they'll be thrown overboard. 
DELOS: I can't take much more of this, Ian! 
MASTER: In, out, row harder. Row harder, do you hear! In, out! 
IAN: Keep rowing, Delos! 
DELOS: I can't! 
IAN: Put your hands over the oars, or he'll kill you! 
MASTER: In, out, in, out, in, out! Keep rowing, keep rowing, do you hear! In, out, in, out, in, out! Keep rowing. 
IAN: This could be our change to get out of here. 
DELOS: Get ready. 
(a wave knocks the galley master off his feet into the slaves, as the galley itself starts to fall apart)

[Market place]

VICKI: Isn't it wonderful, Doctor/ Can we explore? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't see why not, my child. For a while, anyway. Then we must present our credentials so to speak, before night falls. 
VICKI: You're not planning to visit Nero? 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, now, don't tell me what I'm not going to do. I've been invited. I can't disappoint Nero. 
VICKI: What's going on over there, Doctor? 
(the slave auction is about to begin) 
VICKI: What is it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, er, nothing to interest you, my dear. We're going to Rome. Come along, don't let us delay. 
(Vicki and the Doctor leave just before Barbara is hustled onto the slave block) 
SEVCHERIA: I am delighted, gentlemen, to see how much you have appreciated today's merchandise. Let us prove how much so when you begin the bidding. Very well, gentlemen. How many sestertia am I bid for this fine female example of the beautiful, hard working, Britannic race? 
(in other words, Barbara) 
1ST MAN: Five hundred! 
SEVCHERIA: Come, come sir. We all enjoy a good joke, but today we are interested in serious offers only. 
(a man reaches for Barbara's leg, and she tries to stamp on his hand) 
SEVCHERIA: Take note gentlemen, of the fiery spirit. Think about your bids the double it. 
2ND MAN: Two thousand sestertia. 
SEVCHERIA: Yes? 
1ST MAN: Two thousand, five hundred. 
SEVCHERIA: Nearly a good offer, gentlemen, but come, you can do better than that. 
TAVIUS: Ten thousand. 
MEN: What? Who said that? (mutter, mutter) 
SEVCHERIA: Ten thousand? You go to Tavius after all, my dear.

[Beach]

(The storm has passed, and the flotsam and jetsam have been washed up from the galley. Someone approaches Ian from behind) 
IAN: Oh, Delos. 
DELOS: Now you've come to, we'd better get these off. I've found a couple of rocks. You've er, you've been unconscious a long time, Ian. I was beginning to worry. 
IAN: What happened? I remember the storm. 
DELOS: Oh, the ship was smashed to pieces and you were struck by some falling timber. 
IAN: Oh, that's what it was, eh? 
DELOS: Do you remember when you grabbed the Galley Master? 
IAN: Yes. Yes, I remember that. 
DELOS: Well, I got the key from him and I managed to free us. Except for our wrists. Afterwards I managed to get to here. The ship went down. 
IAN: You saved my life, Delos. 
DELOS: Yes, well, lets get on with these, shall we? Ready? 
IAN: Ready? 
(Two sharp strikes with the stones, and the wrist cuffs come off) 
DELOS: There we are. 
IAN: Thanks. 
DELOS: Just one more. I've, managed to look around. We must be somewhere near Rome. 
IAN: Yes, we can't be far away. The boat was heading south. Perhaps we were going there. 
DELOS: Perhaps. You ready? 
IAN: Yes. 
DELOS: There we are. You feel all right? To travel I mean. We must get away from here. 
IAN: Yes, yes, I feel all right. 
DELOS: Oh good. I think it's better if we stick together. Now if we head north we can 
IAN: Sorry, Delos. I'm going to Rome. 
DELOS: Rome? But Ian, you're mad. 
IAN: You don't have to come, but I have a friend who was taken there. I have to find her. 
DELOS: Rome?

[Palace chamber]

TAVIUS: So you see, young woman, that's the whole story. I saw you with that poor woman slave, and it was then that I realised by the way that you were looking after her, that I should have to help you. 
BARBARA: Why, I only did what most people would have done. 
TAVIUS: Now, now. No, I think not. Most people under such circumstances would have looked after themselves. No, you're kind and considerate. 
BARBARA: Thank you. 
TAVIUS: Unfortunately, I'm not able to give you your freedom. You'll still be a slave, but at least here in Nero's house, as a servant of Poppea, life will be more pleasant than it could have been. 
BARBARA: I'm grateful for what you've done, but I must tell you that I have no intention of staying here. 
TAVIUS: Escape, you mean? Well, of course, I can't stop you but, I think you should consider it very carefully. If you should escape and you're recaptured, it would mean your death. 
BARBARA: Yes, I know. 
TAVIUS: I only select and buy the slaves. Fortunately, I'm not answerable for them. 
(a messenger enters) 
TAVIUS: Yes? 
MESSENGER: Maximus Pettulian from Corinth has arrived, sire, and with a small girl. He requests an audience with Caesar Nero. 
TAVIUS: Pettulian? Very well, ask him to come in. 
MESSENGER: Sire. 
TAVIUS: No, wait. On second thoughts, perhaps it would be better if I came out to see him. 
MESSENGER: As you will. 
(the messenger leaves) 
TAVIUS: You'll excuse me. 
(He offers Barbara a necklace) 
TAVIUS: I'll instruct you in your duties later.

[Reception hall]

DOCTOR: I shouldn't think there's a soul in this place that knows me, my dear, so there's no cause for you to worry. 
VICKI: I'll try not to, Doctor. 
(Tavius enters quietly) 
DOCTOR: Oh, it isn't a matter of trying, my dear. 
TAVIUS: Psst. Psst. 
DOCTOR: if I say, and don't make that funny noise. 
VICKI: But. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? What is it? 
TAVIUS: Maximus Pettulian. 
VICKI: That's you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, yes. 
TAVIUS: I am Tavius. There was trouble, but I settled it. 
DOCTOR: What's happened? 
TAVIUS: He's in the apoditarium. 
DOCTOR: The apodi-what? 
TAVIUS: The apoditarium. 
DOCTOR: Oh really, well done, well done, yes. 
MESSENGER: Caesar Nero, Emperor of all Rome! 
VICKI: Nero. I'm going to see Nero. 
(A man wearing a laurel wreath enters, and belches) 
DOCTOR: (quietly) Royal felicitations. 
VICKI: Oh, strentiatum. 
NERO: Someone spoke. Did I give permission to speak? Tavius, did I give permission? 
DOCTOR: Caesar Nero, I 
NERO: Now he's at it! How am I supposed to compose with all this noise going on? 
TAVIUS: Maximus Pettulian. 
NERO: Maximus Pettulian. He's Maximus Pettulian? 
TAVIUS: Yes. 
NERO: The lyre player from Corinth? 
DOCTOR: In person. 
NERO: Play. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
NERO: Play. 
DOCTOR: With such a great musician as yourself present, I would take the inspiration from your example, sire. 
(The Doctor hands Nero the lyre) 
NERO: Oh. A stool. 
(The Doctor goes to sit on it, but Nero just uses it to balance the lyre on his knee. He makes one small strum) 
NERO: Oh, this is an inferior instrument, I cannot. Bring the imperial lyre. 
DOCTOR: Beautiful, beautiful. Did you not hear that, my child? That instant composition? 
VICKI: Oh, yes, er, Maximus. Could you play it? 
DOCTOR: Me? Well, I'll try, that is, with Caesar's permission. 
(a single strum) 
DOCTOR: That is the best I can do, I'm afraid. 
VICKI: Oh, no, it wasn't as good. 
NERO: Oh, of course it wasn't. 
(Nero plays several notes this time) 
NERO: Try this one. 
(Nero hands the imperial lyre to the Doctor) 
DOCTOR: That your excellency would be an impossibility. After such exquisite playing, I cannot presume. It would be out of the question. May I suggest that this instrument goes to your temple? 
DOCTOR: To the temple. 
NERO: And the imperial footstool. Have your, eaten, Maximus? 
(Nero gives the Doctor a joint of meat) 
DOCTOR: Er. 
NERO: Tigilinus. 
(a scribe steps forward, but Nero just wipes his hands on his clothes) 
NERO: We will talk and play together later, Maximus, when you have eaten and practiced. 
(the Emperor's retinue leave) 
DOCTOR: Well, I must say, I got out of that one rather well, hmm? 
VICKI: What happens when he asks you to play next time? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Hmm?

[Street]

(Rome at night) 
DELOS: Well, here were are Ian, Rome. Now what? 
IAN: To tell you the truth, Delos, I hadn't really thought. 
DELOS: Well, I suggest you start. We don't exactly look like respectable citizens of the capital. 
IAN: No. Well, first of all lets find somewhere to clean up, ay, and I suppose Barbara must have been sold. We'll make a start there. 
DELOS: It'll be hopeless. I must, there must 
IAN: You don't have to come, Delos. 
DELOS: I know, I know, but, well luck's been with us so far. Who's to say it won't hold? 
IAN: Good man. Come on. 
(two soldiers hold swords at their throats.)

[Apoditarium]

VICKI: Well, this seems to be the apoditarium. I wonder what Tavius meant? 
DOCTOR: Oh, how should I know, my child? I can't for the life of me understand why I agreed to come here. 
VICKI: Because you're as curious as I am. 
DOCTOR: Me, curious? Huh, nonsense. Someone made a mistake. He thought he was talking with somebody else, I shouldn't wonder. 
VICKI: Well, we might as well have a look round now we're here. 
DOCTOR: What? 
VICKI: Or would you rather we forgot? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no. We may as well look around, as you say. 
(there's a body behind a curtain) 
DOCTOR: Strange, very strange. 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor, that's the Centurion who found us and brought us to the house. 
DOCTOR: I'm quite aware of that, my child, but what does it all mean? What does it all mean, hmm?

[Cells]

SEVCHERIA: I don't know what all the fuss is about. You're lucky the soldiers brought you to me. 
IAN: Lucky? That's hardly the word I'd use. 
SEVCHERIA: Well, you know as well as I do, escaped slaves are put to death automatically. This way at least you'll have a chance of fighting for your freedom. 
IAN: A chance? How? 
SEVCHERIA: By putting on a good show in the arena, and hoping Nero's in a benevolent mood. 
(Sevcheria and the soldiers leave) 
IAN: The arena? 
DELOS: Well, it sounds as if we're going to be trained as gladiators. 
IAN: Yes, but to fight what? Listen! 
(lions are in other cages)

Episode Three - Conspiracy

[Corridor]

(Nero composes and Tigilinus writes down it down. Nero looks at the notes, crosses something out, pushes his lyre over the scribe's head and walks off) 
(Elsewhere in the Palace) 
DOCTOR: Oh, good morning, my dear. Did you sleep well? 
VICKI: Yes, thanks. Did you? 
DOCTOR: Oh, so, so. I must confess, I've been giving a great deal of thought to that business of yesterday and 
TAVIUS: Psst! 
DOCTOR: Oh, there's our hissing friend again. Well? Well? 
TAVIUS: I haven't got long, so listen carefully. I've managed to get rid of that body and I don't think anyone suspects. But if you delay your action, it will be safer. 
DOCTOR: Which part of my action would you like me to put into effect first, hmm? 
TAVIUS: Why, I leave that to you. 
DOCTOR: You, know my plans, of course? 
TAVIUS: Of course, of course, yes. But I don't know the exact details. I must go. I'll try and see you later. 
(Tavius leaves) 
DOCTOR: There's some sort of conspiracy going on, my child, and I've decided for my own sake I must get to the bottom of it. The more I, the sooner I do it, the better. 
VICKI: All right. See you later. 
DOCTOR: Yes, hmm, what? Where are you going? 
VICKI: Oh, nowhere special. Just exploring. 
DOCTOR: Very well, but don't leave the palace. It's big enough to get lost in anyway. And remember, we're only here as observers. We must not interfere with the course of progress, or try to accelerate man's achievements or progress. 
VICKI: Oh, I'll do what you say, Doctor, but it does seem a bit of a waste. Bye. 
DOCTOR: Bye, yes. Well, I suppose the quickest way is to the top. Hmm. I must have a word with Nero.

[Poppaea's chamber]

NERO: We must give him some sort of incentive. 
POPPAEA: Darling, you are the Emperor. I should think your command would be good enough. 
NERO: It should be, shouldn't it. 
POPPAEA: Dearest, which one do you think I should wear? 
NERO: Oh, that one. 
POPPAEA: Oh, really? I would have preferred the other but if you insist. 
NERO: It's quite a problem, Poppaea. 
POPPAEA: Yes, both broaches are very attractive. 
NERO: No, I was referring to my problem. Naturally, I appreciate the feelings of my fellow artists. When Maximus Pettulion plays for the court of Rome, he must have the centre of the stage. He will receive the same rapt and hushed attention that I do when I put on a recital. Well, nearly the same rapt attention as when I play. 
POPPAEA: Why not hold a banquet this evening? Maximus can provide the entertainment. 
NERO: Wonderful idea. A banquet in his honour. But I'd already thought of it, as a matter of fact. 
POPPAEA: You'd better inform him of the arrangements. 
(There's a knock at the door, and Nero realises that his scribe has been trying to put the laurel wreath on his master's head without him noticing) 
NERO: Come in. Tigilinus, get off my bed. 
(Puts the wreath on as Tavius enters) 
NERO: Yes, Tavius? 
TAVIUS: Caesar Nero, we have an audience with the Empress. 
NERO: We? 
(Barbara enters and Nero gets a bad case of instant lust) 
POPPAEA: Dearest, you were on your way to see Maximus. 
NERO: Oh! Yes. Oh, get out of the way, Tavius. 
(Nero leaves in a hurry, with Tigilinus following) 
POPPAEA: Yes, what is it, Tavius? 
TAVIUS: I have a new attendant for your staff, Madame. 
(Tavius leaves) 
POPPAEA: My husband, Caesar Nero, seemed quite taken with you. 
BARBARA: Oh? Did he, Madame? 
POPPAEA: I like being Empress and I intend to remain so. 
BARBARA: Yes, Madame, of course. 
POPPAEA: Good. As long as you understand the position. Now for your first task you can clear away my things. 
BARBARA: Yes, Madame. 
POPPAEA: I shall be in the outer room if you require me. 
(Barbara picks up a tray with a goblet on it) 
BARBARA: I'll just clear these things away, Madame. 
(There's no answer, so she goes out into the corridor)

[Corridor]

NERO: Yoo hoo! 
(Nero is hiding behind a column) 
NERO: I've been waiting for you. I'm coming after you. 
(Barbara starts to run. Tigilinus grabs Nero's toga) 
NERO: Tigilinus, go away. Leave me alone. You shan't get away from me! 
(Barbara runs off, putting down the tray. Nero meets into Vicki, walks backwards and knocks over the small pillar Barbara had put the tray on. Vicki backs into a room stifling her laughter)

[Locusta's workshop]

LOCUSTA: What do you want, child?

[Palace corridor]

(Barbara is still being chased by Nero when the Doctor appears - but he doesn't see her) 
DOCTOR: Oh, Nero, I'd like a word with you. 
NERO: Which way did she go? 
DOCTOR: I beg your pardon? 
NERO: Anyway, I wanted to have a word with you, Maximus. But it can wait, Maximus, it can wait. 
(And Caesar goes off down the corridor, checking every room. Then he doubles back and Barbara ends up behind him. She turns and flees, and the Doctor just sees the pair of them running off away from his again) 
DOCTOR: Extraordinary fellow. What an extraordinary fellow.

[Locusta's workshop]

(The herbalist woman is grinding something in a pestle) 
LOCUSTA: So you've arrived with the great Maximus Pettulion, have you? The court just cannot wait to hear him play, my dear. 
VICKI: They may have to. What are you doing now, Locusta? 
LOCUSTA: Preparing a very special poison, my child. I can guarantee its effect on the victim. 
VICKI: And who's that? The victim, I mean? 
LOCUSTA: I've no idea, Vicki, nobody's ordered it yet. But they will, they will. 
VICKI: I must say, you've got a very unusual sort of a job. 
LOCUSTA: It has its responsibilities. Official poisoner to the court of Caesar Nero. Yes, very responsible. 
VICKI: It must be dangerous too. 
LOCUSTA: Great Jupiter, no. I never drink any of my potions. 
VICKI: No. But I mean, if you poison somebody, don't they take their revenge? 
LOCUSTA: Always. That's why I'm kept so busy. 
VICKI: But, I mean, you 
LOCUSTA: Oh, I see. You mean revenge against me? Oh no, no. I mean, it's nothing to do with me personally, is it? 
VICKI: I suppose not, if you say so. But, the citizens of Rome, don't they object? 
LOCUSTA: To me? No. It's an accepted thing, isn't it? Almost a tradition, in fact, that the family of Caesar want to murder each other. After all, everybody would like to be Caesar of Rome, wouldn't they? I wonder who'll have the honour of being given this?

[Palace corridor]

(Barbara thinks she's got rid of Nero, and enters a room) 
NERO: Cornered at last. (someone grabs his cloak) Tigilinus, if you don't leave me alone, you will be sent to feed the lions. Now go away! 
(Tigilinus runs off. Nero follows Barbara.)

[Poppaea's chamber]

NERO: Got you! Now, young woman, surely you wouldn't refuse me, Claudius Nero, a teeny weeny kiss? 
BARBARA: Shouldn't you think about what your wife would say? 
NERO: Poppaea? Oh, she wouldn't hear of such a thing. (and falls over the couch) 
(The Doctor comes down the corridor and, hearing something, enters the room just as Barbara ducks out of a side door) 
NERO: Maximus. Go away.

[Palace corridor]

(The Doctor shuts the door and backs straight into Poppea) 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm so sorry, Madame. I wanted a word with Nero, but I'll come back later. He seems to be rather busy. 
(The Doctor leaves as we hear the screams of Barbara as Nero continues to pursue her. Poppea listens for a moment then enters)

[Poppaea's chamber]

NERO: Got you!
(Nero finally grabs Barbara and pulls her down on the bed as Poppea enters) 
NERO: Poppaea, darling. Hello. 
POPPAEA: Enjoying yourself, dearest? 
NERO: Hmm? (to Barbara, who has rolled onto the floor) Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't know we you were there. Did you want something? 
BARBARA: No. 
(Barbara leaves) 
NERO: I've got the most terrible headache, darling. I simply had to lie down. 
POPPAEA: Oh? 
NERO: Extraordinary thing. That strange young woman has been chasing me round all morning.

[Cells]

(The slaves have just received some food, and outside a couple of men are practising with short swords) 
DELOS: Don't you want this? 
IAN: No, no, thank you. 
DELOS: You sure, Ian? 
WOMAN: Ian? Is your name Ian? 
IAN: Yes, it is. 
WOMAN: You were planning to meet a woman here? Her name were Barbara. 
IAN: Barbara? Well, where is she now? 
WOMAN: I'm sorry. I don't know. 
IAN: But you just said her name. You must know where she is. 
WOMAN: She were here with me but they took her away to the auction. They never come back. I suppose she were sold. IAN: Sold.

[Palace Baths]

(Nero and the Doctor are sleeping in the heat when a slave enters and pours water on Nero's legs) 
NERO: Idiot! Fool! I'll teach you to boil me alive! Guards! Guards! You maniac! Guards! Come here! (takes a sword from a guard) Oh, wait till I get hold of you, I'll teach you. Get out of my way, Maximus! Did you see what he did? 
DOCTOR: Of course I did, yes, of course I did. Take him away and banish him, and don't let him ever appear again here ever. Ever! 
(The guards remove the slave) 
DOCTOR: I congratulate you, Nero, the way you handled that stupid fellow! Why, dear, it was most impressive! 
NERO: Oh, I'm glad you noticed. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. It was enormous control. 
NERO: You understand, of course, I only took the sword to frighten him? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I noticed that, of course, immediately. Yes. 
NERO: I was going to do something, you know. 
DOCTOR: You did say that perhaps we could have a little talk in here. 
NERO: Oh, of course I did, yes, indeed, yes. Did I say what about? 
DOCTOR: Not a word but I did want to ask you something now. 
NERO: Oh? What? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. On my arrival, I was rather under the impression that there was some sort of intrigue going on here, hmm? 
NERO: Well, nobody said anything to me. Nobody said a word and I am always informed of intrigues. Who was it? 
DOCTOR: Oh it's just a feeling, just a feeling, you know. After all, I mean, a musician with your skill, well, surely you've experienced troubled vibrations? 
NERO: Troubled vibrations? Oh, well, of course! Yes! 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'd rather thought you'd had it, hmm? 
(The Doctor has got the sword away from Nero by now) 
NERO: Oh I have had it! Yes! No, I thought maybe it was just because I was feeling hungry, you know. Ah, that was it! There is a banquet tonight and you are invited. 
DOCTOR: Oh, how charming of you! Thank you. I'm delighted, delighted. 
NERO: It'll be a splendid audience for your first concert. 
(Nero leaves) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I rather thought it might be.

[Locusta's workshop]

(Vicki is hiding underneath the workbench) 
POPPAEA: You understand what you must do, Locusta? 
LOCUSTA: Yes Madame. Get the attendant to serve these drinks to Caesar Nero when he's with your new slave. 
POPPAEA: Correct. And she is to have the special one. Come with me, I'll point her out to you. That'll put paid to any ambitions she has to be Empress.

[Banqueting hall]

(Poppea points out Barbara to Locusta, and Locusta speaks to Tigilinus)

[Corridor]

NERO: The preparations for the banquet are under way, Maximus. You will have to play as you have never played before. 
DOCTOR: Too true! Too true so I shall. 
NERO: Poppaea, my darling. 
POPPAEA: Dearest, I do wish you could find time to look in the banqueting hall. 
NERO: Oh? 
POPPAEA: I think the arrangements are suitable but you have much more artistic appreciation for that sort of thing. 
NERO: Of course I have. I'll see to it at once. Excuse me. 
(Nero leaves) 
DOCTOR: Pardon me, Madame. I must go about my business. 
(a little way away) 
VICKI: Hello Doctor. Solved your problem? 
DOCTOR: No, I haven't, child, no. I raised the question with our illustrious Caesar but I'm afraid that was a mistake. 
VICKI: That's rare for you isn't it. 
DOCTOR: Never mind about that. Have you explored the court, hmm? 
VICKI: Yes, its marvellous. Oh, and guess what? 
DOCTOR: What? Haven't any idea. 
VICKI: There's going to be a feast tonight. 
DOCTOR: Oh, so I heard, my dear. Yes, so I heard. And there's going to be rather an unusual entertainer. 
VICKI: Who? 
DOCTOR: Me!

[Banqueting hall]

NERO: Oh, there you are. Now, close you eyes and Nero will give you a big surprise. 
BARBARA: Pardon? 
NERO: Close your eyes. Caesar orders it. 
(She obeys and he puts a gold bracelet over her left arm.) 
NERO: There. Well, aren't you going to thank me for the present? 
(He puckers up but Tigilinus arrives with the goblets) 
NERO: Go away! 
BARBARA: (taking the goblets) I would like to drink to your health, Caesar Nero. 
NERO: Oh, would you? Oh, well, very well. 
(Barbara drinks deeply)

[Corridor]

DOCTOR: So, you've had a busy day, Vicki? Hmm? 
VICKI: Yes, it was. Oh, something else I forgot to tell you. I think I've poisoned Nero. 
DOCTOR: Really. What? 
VICKI: Well, I didn't actually do it, but his wife was going to murder some poor slave or other and I didn't see why that should happen, so I thought 
DOCTOR: For heavens sake, child, keep quiet. What did you do? 
VICKI: Well, I swapped the drinks round. 
DOCTOR: And I told you not to interfere with history. Come along, quickly, quickly child!

[Banqueting hall]

NERO: You must wait upon me personally at the banquet tonight, my dear. I 
(He sees Poppea) 
BARBARA: You must excuse me. 
(Barbara leaves then the Doctor and Vicki enter by another door) 
DOCTOR: Caesar Nero! Don't drink! 
NERO: Why not? 
DOCTOR: I have every reason to believe that drink is poisoned! Yes, thank heavens I got you in time. 
NERO: My dear Maximus. You've probably saved my life. If only I could lay my hands on whoever was responsible. 
DOCTOR: Quite so, quite so. And now, if you'll excuse us, I have to practice. A great deal of practice before tonight's recital. 
(The Doctor extricates Vicki from Nero's embrace and they leave) 
NERO: Tigilinus? 
(Tigilinus drinks and dies) 
NERO: He was right.

[Cells]

DELOS: I wish you'd sit down. 
IAN: There must be something we can do, Delos. 
DELOS: We can. Wait. 
IAN: When we get out of here, I'm going to comb all the slave markets, question everybody. Someone must remember her. 
DELOS: Ian, you've got to worry about yourself. Otherwise, it's the arena and then (thumbs down)

[Locusta's workshop]

POPPAEA: You stupid fool! There's no answer to failure! 
LOCUSTA: But I would have sworn 
POPPAEA: I feel tired of your feeble excuses. Guards! Guards! Take her! You can save your screams for the arena. Now take her away. Get her out!

[Banqueting hall]

DOCTOR: If he goes on eating, there won't be enough. 
TAVIUS: More wine, Maximus? Everything's set for tomorrow. Be ready. 
(Tavius moves away again) 
DOCTOR: Of course, of course. But I must ask you if 
VICKI: What does he mean, Doctor? Maximus? 
DOCTOR: I've no idea what he's talking about, child. 
VICKI: Well, then, how are you going to get out of the concert this evening? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm not. 
VICKI: But you can't play the lyre, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Can't I, child? Can't I? 
VICKI: You can't possibly do. 
POPPAEA: She isn't here, dearest. 
NERO: Mmm? Who? 
POPPAEA: The new girl. I'm keeping her very busy. 
NERO: New girl? Oh, her. Oh, my dear, she was miles from my thoughts. I was looking to see if everybody had finished. Silence! There will now be a further feast of music. I give you the great Corinthian lyre player, Maximus Pettulion! 
DOCTOR: Thank you! You are all so kind. With Caesar's permission? I would like to play my new composition in honour of this occasion. The music is so soft, so delicate, that only those with keen perceptive hearing, will be able to distinguish this melodious charm of music. 
(And so the Doctor pretends to play, and everyone pretends that they can hear a beautiful tune) 
NERO: (to Poppea) Psst. He's all right, but he's not all that good. 
(Tavius sneezes, a woman applauds, but the Doctor continues and then finishes with a flourish) 
ALL: (cheers) Bravo! 
(Nero storms out) 
VICKI: Doctor, it was wonderful. Wonderful. 
DOCTOR: It's the old fairy story, child. The Emperor's New Clothes. Yes, I gave it as an idea to Hans Anderson.

[Corridor]

NERO: How dare he. How dare he make a fool of me. He must know that I am the greatest talent in the world. No one gets applause like that except me. I'll teach him a lesson. It's a wonderful idea. Hardly surprising, I have a creative mind. I'll put it into operation at once. Guards!

[Poppaea's chamber]

NERO: Tell my wife, tell Poppaea that I have gone to the gladiatorial school. No, better than that. You come with me. 
BARBARA: But I, I. 
NERO: No. No arguments! I won't have any arguments. Tell me, have you ever seen a fight? 
BARBARA: No, I haven't. 
NERO: Then I will arrange one while we're there. I feel like seeing someone hurt myself tonight. Come, quickly.

[Cells]

(Sevcheria gives Ian a helmet) 
IAN: What's this for? 
SEVCHERIA: The Caesar Nero wants you to put on a fight for him. 
IAN: A fight? Against what? 
SEVCHERIA: Each other. 
IAN: And if we refuse? 
SEVCHERIA: He'll have you killed. This way at least, one of you has a chance. A good winner sometimes earns his freedom. 
(Sevcheria leaves, and Delos puts on the helmet) 
DELOS: I'm going to fight you, Ian. 
IAN: Are you, Delos? 
DELOS: You're my friend, remember that. But as he says, at least this way one of us has a chance. 
IAN: By killing the other. 
DELOS: I promise you one thing. If I win, I'll make it quick for you.

[Arena]

NERO: The real reason for this visit, Sevcheria, is for you to arrange an appearance for Maximus Pettulion in the arena. 
SEVCHERIA: The lyre player? 
NERO: Yes, he's at the court. I wish to arrange for him to appear in the circus for the people of Rome. 
SEVCHERIA: Oh, they'll appreciate that, Caesar Nero. 
NERO: Yes, they'll appreciate it even more when you set the lions on him in the middle of his wretched performance. 
SEVCHERIA: The lions? 
NERO: That's what I said, the lions. He humiliated me, that's what he did. He humiliated me. 
SEVCHERIA: Maximus Pettulion? 
NERO: They all applauded as though it was me. 
(Ian and Delos enter.) 
BARBARA: Ian! 
SEVCHERIA: Here. 
(They take the swords. Delos has a shield, and Ian has a net.) 
NERO: Well, commence the fight! 
(The two friends trade blows, then Ian disarms Delos with his net) 
NERO: Why didn't he kill him? The fool, why didn't he kill him? 
(Delos picks up his sword and they start again. This time Delos gets the upper hand, and his sword against the back of Ian's neck) 
NERO: Cut off his head. 
(Delos raises his sword)

Episode Four - Inferno

[Arena]

NERO: Kill him! Kill him! 
(Delos lunges for Nero instead) 
NERO: Guards! Guards! 
IAN: Look out, Delos! 
(Nero hides behind Barbara as Ian and Delos fight the imperial guards) 
NERO: That's better, my dear. Now they really are fighting for their lives. 
(Delos kills a guard in front of Nero) 
NERO: Get up, you coward, and fight. Get up! Your Caesar commands it! 
DELOS: Ian! We can get out this way! 
IAN: Come on, Barbara! 
BARBARA: I can't, Ian! I can't! 
NERO: Kill them! Kill them! 
BARBARA: Run quickly! 
SEVCHERIA: After them! 
IAN: I'll come back for you somehow! 
SEVCHERIA: After them! 
NERO: You'll never catch them now. 
SEVCHERIA: Back to your posts. 
NERO: I'll teach you to turn against me. 
SEVCHERIA: We could have caught them, Caesar Nero. 
NERO: Oh, you'd never have stood a chance in the street outside. But I'll see them dead. I'll see them dead. 
SEVCHERIA: You think they'll come back, Caesar Nero? 
NERO: For her. And when they do, you'll recognise them. Take my guards and bring them to me. 
SEVCHERIA: I understand, Caesar Nero. 
NERO: If you succeed, you will be rewarded. If you fail, you die. (to Barbara) So you are a friend of the gladiators, are you? Give me your sword. 
(Nero stabs the guard who gave him the sword) 
NERO: He didn't fight hard enough.

[Poppaea's chamber]

TAVIUS: You sent for me, madame? 
POPPAEA: Tavius, yes. Come here. The new slave you bought for me. 
TAVIUS: Yes, madame. 
POPPAEA: I find her unsatisfactory. Get rid of her. 
TAVIUS: Of course, as soon as I can find a replacement. 
POPPAEA: Immediately. If she's not out of the palace today, I'll take my own measures. And they'll be successful this time. 
TAVIUS: But the Caesar Nero 
(Poppea slaps his face) 
POPPAEA: How dare you speak to me like that. My orders are to be carried out, otherwise your own life will be in danger.

[Corridor]

BARBARA: Tavius, I've been looking for you everywhere. 
TAVIUS: Oh? 
BARBARA: Is there anyone inside? 
TAVIUS: No. 
BARBARA: Well, I think it would be safer if we talked in there.

[Chamber]

BARBARA: Tavius, I'm desperate. You're the only one I can turn to. I can't move anywhere in the palace. The guards watch me all the time. 
TAVIUS: Now, please, slowly. I don't understand. 
BARBARA: Well, you remember when you first brought me here? 
TAVIUS: Yes. 
BARBARA: I told you that I didn't intend to stay. 
TAVIUS: Yes. 
BARBARA: Well, that time has come. I was planning to leave. A friend of mine, Ian, is coming to collect me. 
TAVIUS: Go on. 
BARBARA: Well, Nero's found out about it and he intends to use me to trap Ian. 
TAVIUS: I see. When's your friend coming? 
BARBARA: I think it's tonight. 
TAVIUS: Good. Now don't worry. I'll think of something, I promise you. Everything will be all right. 
BARBARA: What can I say? I can't repay you. 
TAVIUS: I need no reward. Besides, I have my own reason for helping you. Poppaea instructed me to dismiss you. I shall say I did. 
BARBARA: Thank you, Tavius. You've given me new hope. Oh, do you know Maximus Pettulion? 
TAVIUS: Yes. Yes, I do. Why? 
BARBARA: Nero is planning an appearance for him in the arena. It seems 
(she notices something happening outside)

[Palace walls]

SEVCHERIA: Two off. March! 
(Two guards take a their posts) 
SEVCHERIA: One off. March! 
(another guard) 
SEVCHERIA: Two off. March!

[Chamber]

TAVIUS: Maximus Pettulion to appear in the arena? 
BARBARA: Tavius. They're posting the guard. It must be to trap Ian.

[Street]

DELOS: If we've got to waste time until tonight, I suggest we get undercover. 
IAN: It's sometimes safer to hide in the open, Delos. 
DELOS: We won't get near the palace, you know that. Nero heard you shout. They'll be waiting. 
IAN: Perhaps, but I've got a friend who specialises in trouble. He dives in and usually finds a way. I think I'll take a leaf out of his book for once. Come on.

[Nero's chamber]

(The Doctor is wearing his glasses to look at a diagram on parchment) 
DOCTOR: You know what this is, child, don't you, hmm? 
VICKI: Plans? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Caesar Nero made it. The rebuilding of Rome. Let me see, where are we now? 64AD, July. Yes, of course. He sets fire to Rome. 
VICKI: I know about that, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, he must, I expect his plan will be ready at any time now. 
TAVIUS: Psst. Maximus! 
DOCTOR: Must you hiss my name from all corners, hmm? 
TAVIUS: I'm sorry, but I have news. 
DOCTOR: Yes? 
TAVIUS: Nero has arranged for you to play in the arena. 
DOCTOR: Oh, has he now? Well, I must have misjudged the fellow. 
TAVIUS: And as you play the lions will be released. 
DOCTOR: Oh, that will be charming. 
TAVIUS: Well, obviously you must leave here before this concert. 
DOCTOR: Oh, obviously, hmm. 
TAVIUS: So if you still intend to carry on with your plan, today is your last chance to kill Nero. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. Kill Nero? I beg your pardon? 
TAVIUS: Maximus, when you first sent word from Corinth of your intention to murder the Caesar Nero, I informed your allies in the court. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, you did, did you? Yes. 
TAVIUS: Then, when the assassins left here to waylay you on your journey, naturally I thought that was the end. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but I arrived here, hmm? 
TAVIUS: Yes, Maximus, you arrived here. 
DOCTOR: And the Centurion who was killed by my allies, was the man that knew all about my plans and Nero didn't? 
TAVIUS: Yes, yes, we all know that, but my main concern now, Maximus, is that you should act on what I say. 
DOCTOR: I shall certainly act on what you say, immediately. 
TAVIUS: Good, good, good. And the lions will go hungry after all, eh? 
DOCTOR: Yes! 
(Tavius leaves) 
DOCTOR: Well, that settles that little bit of intrigue. I'm a would-be murderer, am I? Well, we must be going, child. I want to leave here as soon as it's dark. 
VICKI: Oh, but Doctor 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, there'll be no arguments. You will do as I say. 
(Nero enters) 
NERO: Maximus, my dear friend! 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear Caesar Nero. 
NERO: I have a surprise for you. Guess what it is. 
DOCTOR: Well now, let me think. You want me play in the arena? 
NERO: You guessed. 
DOCTOR: Well, it's no problem at all, after all, you want to do your very best for your fellow artists, well, why not the arena, hmm? 
NERO: Yes, yes, of course, that is exactly right. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well I promise you I shall try to make it a roaring success. 
NERO: You'll have to play something special, you know. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, of course, of course, yes. Something serious, yes. Something they can really get their teeth into, hmm? 
NERO: You can't know, you can't. I've told no one. 
DOCTOR: Caesar Nero, I've always wanted to put on a good show, to give a great performance. 
(behind the Doctor's back, the sun's ray are magnified by his glasses and set fire to the plans) 
DOCTOR: After all, who knows? If I go down well, I might even make it my farewell performance. You see, I've always wanted to be considered as an artist of some taste. Generally regarded as, er, well er, palatable, hmm? But I must be boring you, oh I must! Surely you have so many other important things to attend to without standing here, chewing over the facts with me? Good gracious, there's something burning. 
NERO: My plans! My drawings for New Rome! You fool! You idiot! 
(Vicki tries to put out the flames with the curtains) 
NERO: A lifetime's work! I'll have you both killed over and over again! Guards! Guards! Fool! Idiot! Traitor! Pig! I'll stick you both in the arena, on an island with water all round, and in the water there will be alligators and the water level will be raised and the alligators will get you! Fool! Traitor! Brilliant! You are a genius! A genius! I will make you rich! Rich! So the Senate wouldn't pass my plans, eh? Wouldn't let me build my New Rome? But if the old one is burnt, if it goes up in flames, they will have no choice! Rome will be rebuilt to my design! Brilliant! Brilliant! 
(Nero leaves, carrying the parchment torch) 
DOCTOR: Well, there you are, release us. You heard what Nero said. Brilliant, brilliant. Let us go, will you, otherwise you'll be getting some of that alligator treatment. Go on, on your way. About your business. Go along. 
(The guards leave) 
DOCTOR: We'd better be going, child and I want to leave here as soon as it's dark. 
VICKI: I didn't think that was going to work. 
DOCTOR: Wasn't going to work? What next. I never had any doubt in my mind, my dear.

[Corridor]

NERO: Fantastic! Brilliant! It's a fantastic idea, Poppaea. 
POPPAEA: Well, if it's your idea, dearest, it must be. 
NERO: Well, nearly all mine, dear. You know how I've always longed to rebuild Rome, name it after myself. 
POPPAEA: Yes, I know. 
NERO: At last, here's a chance of making it all come true. Burn the old one, and the cynics will have to pass my plans. It is a good idea, isn't it? 
POPPAEA: Yes, very. 
NERO: Did you want me? 
POPPAEA: Only to find out why the Palace has been surrounded by guards. 
NERO: Guards? Oh, yes, of course, yes. That new slave of yours, that girl, she and some of her friends are coming here tonight. They'll be captured and killed. I must, get someone to start the fires. Tonight. No time like the present.

[Palace walls]

(It is now evening and the guard is being inspected) 
SEVCHERIA: Stand up straight, soldier.

[Reception hall]

NERO: What's keeping them? The guards should have returned hours ago with my torchbearers. 
TAVIUS: You. Go and see if they're outside.

[Palace walls]

DELOS: Ian, guards! 
IAN: There must be someway of getting in here. Quick! Delos, get into line.

[Reception hall]

(Ian and Delos blend in with the putative torchbearers) 
TAVIUS: Hurry, hurry, come. 
(Nero pours gold coins on the floor) 
NERO: Well, pick them up then. 
DELOS: What's going on, Ian? 
IAN: I don't know. I tell you one thing, if I get the chance, I'm going to find Barbara. 
NERO: That's enough. Silence! That was just a sample. There will be more for you, if you carry out the task that I have for you. I want you men to start fires in the hutments next to the circus. The fire will spread quickly. By tonight, all Rome will be ablaze. Kill anyone who tries to stop you. You are acting on orders from Caesar Nero, Emperor of all Rome! 
TAVIUS: You are Ian? 
IAN: Yes. 
TAVIUS: Come with me. 
NERO: Then, the rebuilding will commence. A new city will arise from the flames. Neropolis? Nerocaesum? Or just plain Nero!

[Palace walls]

SEVCHERIA: Yes. They may have got in with the crowd. If they did, they won't get out.

[Corridor]

IAN: But how did you know I'd get in that way? 
TAVIUS: I didn't. I just put myself in your place and that seemed the logical entrance. Come with me.

[Room]

IAN: Barbara! 
BARBARA: Ian! 
(They hug) 
TAVIUS: Put this on. (a cloak) 
BARBARA: Will we get out of here? 
IAN: There's a chance, Barbara. Just a chance.

[Palace walls]

(a twig snaps) 
SEVCHERIA: See what that is. 
DOCTOR: This way child, and try and be quiet. The place is swarming with guards. 
(The guard meets them) 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's only us.

[Reception hall]

(The fire brands are being lit) 
NERO: Silence! Leave now and start the fires.

[Corridor]

(Delos thrusts his brand into a guards face, and he, Ian and Barbara escape) 
IAN: Well done, Delos. 
DELOS: The Emperors' instructions! Well, now that you've found Barbara, where are you making for? 
IAN: We go north. 
BARBARA: Assessium. 
DELOS: Well, I'll travel some of the way with you, and it's home for me. They won't catch me a second time, I promise you that. Come. Come.

[Room]

TAVIUS: Good luck, my child, good luck. 
(In his hand he holds a small wooden cross)

[Countryside]

VICKI: I think the road's just up ahead. 
DOCTOR: Good, good. I expect Ian and Barbara'll be wondering when we're going to get back. 
VICKI: Doctor. Look. 
DOCTOR: Oh. The great fire of Rome, my dear. Hmm? 
VICKI: My first real sight of history. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a most memorable occasion. 
VICKI: Isn't it strange to think that people will read about that in books for thousands and thousands of years and here am I sitting here actually watching it. It's a pity they got it all wrong. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Got it all wrong? What do you mean, child, hmm? 
VICKI: Well, they didn't mention you. 
DOCTOR: Of course not. Why should they? 
VICKI: Well, it was you who gave Nero the idea, wasn't it? 
DOCTOR: I? Gave him? 
VICKI: Honestly, Doctor, and after that long talk you gave me about not meddling with history, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. 
DOCTOR: It's got nothing to do with me. 
VICKI: You burnt his drawings. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, an accident. 
VICKI: Well, maybe it was but if you hadn't 
DOCTOR: Well, he could have, he could have, he would have been told someone else. You can't possibly accuse me of that. 
VICKI: All right, you have it your way, I'll have it mine. 
DOCTOR: Now look here, young lady, lets settle this. Insinuating that all this is my fault. Hmm? My fault. 
(in the palace Nero laughs maniacally and plays his lyre)

[Villa]

IAN: Nobody about. 
BARBARA: Bit early, they might not be up yet. 
IAN: If the master was back, the servants would be. Surely Vicki or the Doctor would have cleared up this mess. 
(Ian finds the broken vase) 
IAN: Ah. Now that's what they hit me on the head with. 
BARBARA: Yes. Surely the Doctor wouldn't have gone back to the Tardis without us? 
IAN: No, I don't think so. All in all, I think we've got back before them. 
BARBARA: Yeah. Oh, I'm so hungry. 
IAN: Yes, so am I. Er, Barbara, there must be a bit of that cold peacock of yours left in the fridge. 
BARBARA: Hey, you're right! 
IAN: Why don't you have a look? 
BARBARA: Oh, very funny! Instead of sitting there making stupid jokes, why don't you get yourself cleaned up? As a matter of fact, you can start with this. 
IAN: Oh, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Well you broke it. 
IAN: I did? 
BARBARA: Yes, well, I know I picked it up to help but you got your head in the way. 
IAN: You hit me on the head with that? 
BARBARA: Well, yes you see, well, in the struggle, you 
IAN: So, I've got you to blame for being thrown into jail, eh? Made to row in a galley! Fight like a Roman 
BARBARA: Oh, what are you doing? 
IAN: I'll show you what I'm going to do! 
(he makes to dunk her in the fountain) 
BARBARA: No! No! All right, I'll clear it up. 
IAN: That's better. O tempora, o mores. 
(that night, as Ian and Barbara are dozing after dinner) 
DOCTOR: Well, well, well, well. 
IAN: Oh, oh, Doctor. 
BARBARA: Oh, you're back. 
DOCTOR: Oh, what zest, what youthful exuberance! Try not to look at them, child. Their outburst of energy could make you go dizzy. 
VICKI: Barbara, we went to Rome. We met Nero. They all thought the Doctor was a musician and they gave a concert and all these people were 
BARBARA: Vicki, Vicki, listen. 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara. The young lady doesn't want to listen to people who have been idling away their days. 
BARBARA: I haven't been idling. 
DOCTOR: Well, now you've had a nice long holiday, I'm sure you can't wait to get back to the Tardis, hmm? 
IAN: If you let us get a word in edgeways, we'd 
DOCTOR: It'll have to keep. Have a grape. Come along, my dear. 
(The Doctor and Vicki leave) 
IAN: Well, how do you like that? 
BARBARA: Oh well. Even if we had told them, I don't think they'd have believed us. 
IAN: No. Said we were dreaming. 
BARBARA: Oh, it isn't fair, Ian, is it? 
IAN: No it is not. Still, got a funny side to it, hasn't it. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Come along, lazy bones! 
(Ian picks up a wine jug and goblet) 
IAN: Roman souvenir.

[Tardis]

(The Tardis has taken off safely) 
VICKI: And you see, after that, he got and he started pretending to play the lyre and the point was, he wasn't really playing it at all. 
BARBARA: But no one would admit that they couldn't hear him. 
VICKI: Exactly! He fooled everybody. 
IAN: He usually does, Vicki. You'll see. 
BARBARA: Oh, well, much as I like these clothes, I really think we ought to change into something a little more practical. 
VICKI: Yes, you're right. Where will we go next? Has the Doctor told you yet? 
BARBARA: Oh, no, he never does that. 
VICKI: You mean it's a surprise? 
IAN: Er, yes. To everybody. 
VICKI: But the Doctor can work the ship can't he? 
BARBARA: Er, yes. 
IAN: Sort of. 
VICKI: Go on. He must know what he's doing. He's been at those controls for hours. I don't believe you. Come on, Barbara. 
(Barbara and Vicki leave) 
IAN: Anything wrong, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh, Chesterton. Yes, you know, I wouldn't had thought it possible but somehow we've materialised for a split second of time and been imprisoned in some kind of force. I simply can't break its hold. Somewhere, somehow, we're being slowly dragged down. 
IAN: Dragged down? To what?


[Tardis]
DOCTOR: I wouldnt had thought it possible, but somehow weve materialised, for a split second of time, and been imprisoned in some kind of force. I simply cant break its hold. Somewhere, somehow, were being slowly dragged down. 
IAN: Dragged down? To what?

Episode One - The Web Planet

[Planet surface]

(The Tardis materialises in a bleak landscape)

[Tardis]

(Everyone is out of Roman garb and back to normal. The scanner is displaying the area outside.) 
DOCTOR: All responses negative. Air thin and static. Hmm! 
BARBARA: Crags and pools. Oh, its like a cemetery, its so quiet. 
IAN: Yeah, no vegetation, and I havent seen anything move yet. Were on the moon. 
DOCTOR: Oh, what is holding us here? What force, hmm? 
VICKI: That looks a bit grim. Where are we? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh. 
IAN: Doctor, cant there just be something wrong with the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Wrong? My boy, weve been dragged off our course. The question is, is it some natural phenomena or is it intelligent, deliberate, or for a purpose, hmm? 
BARBARA: Oh, youll find the answer, Doctor. You always do. 
DOCTOR: What 
BARBARA: Youll find the answer. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, my dear, yes, Im confident that I can counteract it with more power. Yes. Nowm let me see. 
(Vicki winces)

[Planet surface]

(Giant ant-like creatures communicate in high-piched beeps to each other)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Good. Good, The power response is satisfactory. 
VICKI: Can you hear it? Listen. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: What is it? 
DOCTOR: Oh. 
VICKI: Ian, Barbara, what is it? 
IAN: What can you hear, Vicki? 
VICKI: A sort of humming. Ooo, cant you hear it? 
IAN: Do you hear anything, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, shes probably heard an extra-sonic sound. You know, the thing that young people and young animals hear. Excuse me, youre in the way. 
VICKI: Oh, its stopped. Barbara, its stopped. 
BARBARA: Are you all right now? 
VICKI: Yes. Yes, thanks. 
BARBARA: Doctor? Doctor, we must get out of here. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, I quite agree. I quite agree. The power build up is strong enough. Yes, quite satisfactory. Well now the motors. Wait a minute. Yes.

[Planet surface]

(A massive woodlouse thing joins the mega-ants. The Tardis tries to dematerialise, but fails)

[Tardis]

(The mega-ant noise can be clearly heard, and the Tardis wobbles. Everyone is thrown about and the scanner goes wild)
IAN: Whats happening, Doctor, whats happening? 
DOCTOR: We seem to be caught! Trapped somehow. Is it some strange phenomena? Theres no power in the ship. Its useless. 
BARBARA: Ian, Doctor, look. I saw a flash behind one of those crags. 
IAN: Where? 
BARBARA: Out there. I saw it. I saw it. 
IAN: Well, its not there now. 
BARBARA: Well I can see its not there. 
DOCTOR: All right, all right, dont snap at each other, my dear. 
BARBARA: Im sorry. 
DOCTOR: You probably saw some cosmic ray which is causing the interference. 
BARBARA: Well, I was almost. Vicki? 
(Vicki is still on the floor) 
VICKI: The noise, did it stop? 
BARBARA: Yes. Its all gone now. Come on, I think youd better lie down for a while. 
DOCTOR: So disturbing, all this interference. 
IAN: Well, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I cant understand it. Well, theres nothing for it, my boy, but we shall, er, its a matter of exploration. We shall have to go and find the trouble of this interference and then learn how to counteract it.
IAN: Oh No need for the other two to come. Ill go and tell them. 
DOCTOR: Quite so. 
IAN: Oh, how is she? 
BARBARA: Oh, shes better. Oh, Doctor? Do you have such a thing as a sedative? 
DOCTOR: Of course, my dear. Its in the first aid box. You know where it is. There, its facing you. 
(The DOCTOR points to a box which is among many pieces on a table in the alcove.) 
BARBARA: Oh, yes. 
(She goes to an alcove) 
BARBARA: Oh, Doctor, what a mess. Honestly, one of these days Im going to have a jolly good spring clean around here. 
IAN: Shes asleep already. Oh, er, Barbara, the Doctor and I are going outside to have a look around. Now dont worry. I wont let him out of my sight. 
DOCTOR: Nearly done, my boy, hmm? 
IAN: Yes, were ready. 
BARBARA: You will be careful, both of you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, of course, of course. Now then, I want you to wear this ADJ. 
IAN: This what? 
DOCTOR: Its an Atmospheric Density Jacket, to be precise. Oh, I see. Is the atmosphere a bit thin? 
DOCTOR: Yes, Im afraid its rather sub-normal. 
IAN: Hello, whats this extraordinary thing? 
DOCTOR: Oh, these are what they technically call a respiratory compensator. 
IAN: Oh, I see. A sort of advanced oxygen mask, eh? 
DOCTOR: Exactly, exactly. 
IAN: Well, come on then, Doctor. Ah. How do we open the doors? We have no power. 
DOCTOR: Ah, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear. Hmm. Its one thing after another. 
IAN: (Smiling.) Hmm? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I, er, I, er. I didnt want to, er. 
IAN: Hey? 
(The Doctor takes his signet ring off.) 
DOCTOR: This is not merely a decorative object. Come along, come along. 
(The Doctor flicks some switches and waves the ring in front of an electric eye. The main doors open and he scuttles out, chuckling. Ian follows and the doors close again)

[Women's bedroom]

(Vicki is on one of the S-shaped beds) 
BARBARA: Vicki? Here, take these. Youll feel much better. 
VICKI: What is it? 
BARBARA: Oh, its just something to make you sleep. 
VICKI: May I see the container. 
BARBARA: Any aches or pains. 
VICKI: No, I didnt hurt myself. My ears still sting a bit, but thats all. 
BARBARA: Well, have you decided yet whether to take the prescribed dose? 
VICKI: It looks a bit medieval. 
BARBARA: What do you mean? 
VICKI: Well, you wouldnt like it if I wanted to stick leaches all over you, would you? And I mean, it boils down to the same thing. They might have taken these in your time, but that doesnt mean 
BARBARA: Now, wait a minute. You cant blame my generation for everything and those pills belong to the Doctor. 
VICKI: He must have picked them up on his travels then because Ive never seen Asperin before. 
BARBARA: Oh, so you studied medicine at school, did you? 
VICKI: Yes, of course I did. Didnt you teach it? 
BARBARA: No. We worked upwards from the three Rs. 
VICKI: Hmm? 
BARBARA: Reading, writing, rithmatic. 
VICKI: Oh, it was a nursery school. 
BARBARA: It was not. 
VICKI: Oh. I wish Id gone to your school. We had to take a certificate of education in medicine, physics, chemistry. 
BARBARA: Now, wait a minute, how old were you? 
VICKI: Well, I was ten when I took those. 
BARBARA: Ten? What did you do in your time, live in the classroom? 
VICKI: Live in the what? 
BARBARA: Classroom. Lecture hall. 
(blank look) 
BARBARA: How long did you study? 
VICKI: Almost an hour a week. We had these machines, you see, and we 
BARBARA: All right, Vicki. Now look, you dont theres anything wrong with those pills, do you? 
VICKI: No. 
BARBARA: Well, why dont you just pander to my old-fashioned medieval superstitions and take them for me? 
VICKI: Well. 
BARBARA: After all, it would save me having to put make-up on and a mask and dance round a fire in order to get rid of the evil spirits. 
VICKI: All right!. 
BARBARA: Good. 
VICKI: Thats nice, Barbara. I havent seen you wear it before. 
BARBARA: The bracelet? No, I havent had it for very long. 
VICKI: Was it a present? 
BARBARA: Mmm. 
VICKI: From Ian? 
BARBARA: No. From Nero, as a matter of fact. 
VICKI: From Nero? But it couldnt have been, we 
BARBARA: I havent had a chance to tell you before but Ian and I went to Rome also. 
VICKI: What? I, I 
BARBARA: Ill tell you all about it when you wake up. 
VICKI: Im not sure whether youre making it up or not. Ill ask Ian. Hell tell me. 
BARBARA: Well you do that. Hell be back soon. 
VICKI: Back? Hes gone outside?

[Planet surface]

(The Doctor is examining a large rock) 
DOCTOR: Well, well, well. That is remarkable. Gracious. During all my travels, I dont think Ive ever come across this. Magical. Isnt it extraordinary? I say, are you there, Chesterton? Chesterton? What are you doing, dear boy? Fiddling and gaping over there. Come over here and learn something. Look here, do you see what this is? Mica, hmm? 
IAN: Yes, it's one of the silicates. 
DOCTOR: Capable of withstanding great heat. 
IAN: Quite. 
DOCTOR: Have you got something sharp I can have for a moment, hmm? 
IAN: Oh. Try my pen. 
(He takes out a pen which immediately disappears) 
DOCTOR: Thats very clever. Very clever. You know, youve never done that before. Thats a remarkable conjuring trick. 
IAN: That was no conjuring trick, Doctor. That was my pen. It vanished into thin air. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear man. 
IAN: Vanished! 
(Echoes.) Vanished vanished vanished vanished 
IAN: Yes, my gold pen! 
(Echoes.) Pen Vanished My gold pen Vanished. 
DOCTOR: Gold. 
IAN: What is it Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Echoes, dear boy! 
IAN: I dont mean that. I mean this place. I have a feeling. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? What sort of feeling? 
IAN: I have a feeling were being watched. Havent you? 
DOCTOR: No. No, no, no, no, I cant see any spooks or anything. I dont think so, no. Not particularly, no. I must say that if I lived here and I heard you roaring your head off, Id probably come down and take a look at you. 
IAN: Then take my pen? 
DOCTOR: Yes, what if the powers thats got hold of the Tardis has taken your pen? Of course! Ha ha! Now then, theres something for us to solve. Come along, come along, come along.

[Tardis]

(Barbara is doing her spring-cleaning, and pauses to watch the Doctor and Ian on the scanner. Her left arm is briefly pulled towards the door)

[Women's bedroom]

VICKI: Barbara? 
BARBARA: Oh, sorry, did I wake you? 
VICKI: No. The others back yet? 
BARBARA: No, not yet. 
VICKI: Is something wrong? 
BARBARA: No. Why? 
VICKI: Dont know. You seem nervous. 
BARBARA: Oh, theres theres something about this place. 
VICKI: I know. I wished wed materialised in some really luxurious place, you know. Lots of lovely things to buy and eat and wear. 
(Barbara's arm gets pulled towards the door again) 
VICKI: Is your arm hurting? 
BARBARA: No. Vicki, I know this sounds silly, but it doesnt feel as though it belongs to me. A little while ago it moved without my intending it to. Well, its those things we dont understand that frighten us. Im sure theres a perfectly simple explanation. Im just letting my imag 
(Barbara breaks off and leaves the room)

[Planet surface]

IAN: Doctor, look. 
(It's a pyramid) 
IAN: That was built. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but when? Its old, so old. Look at the state its in. 
(they walk up to it) 
DOCTOR: Its a pity we didnt bring a ladder with us. We might be able to see whats on the top. 
IAN: Well, it isnt Nelson. 
DOCTOR: No. No, pity. Well, it certainly has nothing to do with holding the ship here, dear boy.
IAN: Curious, though. 
DOCTOR: Yes, its curious. Yes, yes, yes, but we must find something more tangible, hmm? Come along, come along. 
IAN: Oh, Doctor. Look. 
(a small pool) 
IAN: It must be water. Any form of life would need that, hey? 
DOCTOR: Wait, wait, stop. 
IAN: Whats the matter? 
DOCTOR: Youre a little premature. Lets have your tie. 
IAN: Well, I havent got one. 
DOCTOR: I know youre not wearing one, dear boy, but the one round your middle, hmm? 
IAN: I hope my pants stay up. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well thats your affair, not mine. 
(Ian removes his tie-belt) 
IAN: There you are. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Now then. 
IAN: Huh? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Lets see. 
(The Doctor lowers the tie into the pool.) 
IAN: Just a minute! 
(The tie begins to smoke.) 
DOCTOR: There you are. Look, See that? Yes, there you are. You see? 
IAN: Yes, I do see. Youve ruined it. That was my Coal Hill School tie. Youve just, er 
DOCTOR: Saved your life. You were about to have a wash in there, werent you, or probably drink some of it? We very nearly had the remnants of a Coal Hill School teacher in there instead of his wretched old, ragged old tie. 
IAN: Never mind about that. What is it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, let's see now. Now, what have we got, hmm? Echoes. Interference. Gold. And now, acid. Yes, similar properties to formic acid. Yes, its strange, isnt it? Its very strange. 
(Ian throws the remains of his tie back towards the pool, and a stone plops into the liquid from above. A mega-ant ducks out of sight) 
IAN: Doctor! There! Theres something in there! I saw a light, it it broke the surface. 
DOCTOR: A light? Is it a reflection from a planet? 
IAN: No, no. It was in there. I saw something in there, I tell you. 
DOCTOR: Now, my young man. If this is your idea of revenge for that tie then I think it's a pretty poor effort. 
IAN: Doctor, this is not revenge, I 
DOCTOR: Now listen, we came here to find out the source of interference. Now I suggest we keep our minds on this subject. Youre rambling on. Come along. Thats it. 
(The mega-ant sound starts up) 
IAN: What is it, Doctor?

[Tardis]

(Barbara is trying to block out the sound with her hands. Then the Tardis doors open, the console starts revolving, and her bracelet is tugged at) 
BARBARA: No! 
(Finally, like a sleepwalker, Barbara leaves the Tardis and the doors close behind her)

[Planet surface]

IAN: You mean, the noises are messages? 
DOCTOR: It probably comes from some sentient thing, or a machine operated by it. We must find the source of this interference. Now come on.

[Women's bedroom]

(The console is still turning as Vicki wakes up gently) 
VICKI: Barbara? Barbara?

[Tardis]

VICKI: Barbara? 
(The doors are open again) 
VICKI: Barbara, where are you? Barbara! Barbara!

[Planet surface]

ECHOES: Barbara. Barbara. 
IAN: Thats Vicki. Somethings wrong back at the ship. 
DOCTOR: Theyve probably left the doors open. Come on. 
(They run, Ian ahead of the Doctor, when) 
DOCTOR: Look out! 
(Ian gets snared in a net that comes up from the ground) 
IAN: Doctor! Dont come near, Doctor! Go back to the ship! Go back to the ship! 
(Meanwhile, Barbara is sleepwalking towards the acid pool) 
DOCTOR: Stand still. 
IAN: It stings and hurts! 
DOCTOR: Ill go back to the ship and try and find something. Can you wait? 
IAN: Yes, all right!

[Tardis]

(The Tardis lurches, nearly throwing Vicki to the floor. She grabs the console and starts flicking switches. We hear the dematerialisation sound)

[Planet surface]

DOCTOR: My ship. My Tardis. 

Episode Two - The Zarbi

[Planet surface]

(A mega-ant's sounds make Barbara turn away from the acid pool at the last moment and walk around it instead) 
(Ian is out cold on the ground, and the net has vanished) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton! Chesterton! 
(The Doctor gently touches Ian) 
DOCTOR: Ian. 
IAN: Ahh! Dont touch me! 
DOCTOR: Are you all right, boy? 
IAN: Oh, my face. my face. Whats the matter with it? 
DOCTOR: Its a little blistered. 
IAN: Oh, its feels as is I fell into a bed of stinging nettles. 
DOCTOR: Whats happened to that weed, hmm? 
IAN: I don't know. It just went. 
DOCTOR: Went where? 
IAN: Well, it just went. Into the air, into the ground. Oh, what a cursed place this is. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a cursed place. So barren. I wonder. Yes, cursed. 
IAN: Come on, Doctor. Lets get back to the Tardis. Get something for my face. 
DOCTOR: Oh, unfortunately, I cant help you at the moment, dear boy. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: And I have a shock for you. The ships gone. Vanished. (Meanwhile, Barbara is now being followed by a giant winged insect.) 
DOCTOR: There must be an answer to it, dear boy. There must be answer! They cant even get in the ship, let alone operate it. The interior of my ship is inviolable. 
(The Doctor suddenly clutches at his chest) 
IAN: Whats the matter? 
DOCTOR: It's my chest. 
IAN: Cant you breathe? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. 
IAN: Something wrong with these? 
DOCTOR: Yes, its these ADJ coats are no use. After about an hour, theyre useless. 
IAN: Can we live without them? 
DOCTOR: Just about. 
IAN: Let's take them off, shall we? Get used to the atmosphere, okay? All right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
(Ian takes the jacket off) 
IAN: You can certainly tell the difference, cant you. Breathe slowly. Deeply, like a diver. Oh, it its possible. Okay? 
DOCTOR: There, do you see those ridges? What are those ridges in the sand there? Have a look. 
IAN: The Tardis. 
DOCTOR: I heard the Tardis. 
IAN: Its been dragged away. Dragged away! 
(and just to prove it, we see the Tardis travelling along, seemingly under its own power, but accompanied by the mega-ant noises)

[Tardis]

(Vicki is struggling to keep her balance as she watches the progress on the scanner. Then a mega-ant head fills the screen)

[Planet surface]

(The winged creature gently takes Barbara's arm and guides her into a cave where there are others of its kind)

[Cave]

(Another of the creatures removes her gold bracelet and throws it into a pool of acid. Barbara wakes up) 
BARBARA: My bracelet. I was. Who are you? What do you want? 
(They block her way out) 
VRESTIN: Stop her! Stay where you are.

[Planet surface]

IAN: Oh, those tracks have disappeared. 
DOCTOR: The ground seems firmer here. 
IAN: No sign of it. 
DOCTOR: Oh, all so strange, so unnatural. Ive never experienced anything in my life before like this. But we must continue with our search. 
IAN: Yeah. 
DOCTOR: Take a look over there. Well, thats odd. Those are not track marks. Those are more like claw marks. Yes. Chesterton! 
(Ian has just put his foot in an insect pupae) 
IAN: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: I think were on the right track, my boy. 
IAN: Never mind about that. Look at this. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious. Its hollow. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well preserved. Yes, a vertebrate creature, yes, highly developed, hmm! 
IAN: But its skin is more like a chrysalis. 
DOCTOR: Menoptra. Yes, does that word mean anything to you, hmm? 
IAN: No, nothing. You mean youve been here before? 
DOCTOR: No, no, my boy. No, but its this rock formation and now this creature, this object, it suggests the planet Vortis. 
IAN: Vortis? What galaxy is that in? 
DOCTOR: The Isop galaxy. Yes, many light years from Earth. And yet the Vortis hasnt the moons and here, there there are several. Look, you see? You can see for yourself. 
IAN: Yes. Cant a planet attract satellites to itself, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, yes, but it would need a galactic explosion, you know, some kind of new force. Whether this Vortis planet has that or not, I cant be sure. Anyway, lets, come on, over here.

[Tardis]

VICKI: Help me. 
(The Tardis is moving towards some sort of entrance)

[Cave]

BARBARA: After wed landed, two of our party went to explore. The last thing I remember was being in the ship, the doors opening, and then, well, then you came. 
HRHOONDA: Kill her. 
VRESTIN: (female) No. 
HRHOONDA: A stranger must not be trusted. 
HROSTAR: (a male) You chose here when you chose to land on Vortis? 
BARBARA: I keep telling you, we didnt choose. Our ship was forced here. 
VRESTIN: The Zarbi will treat them as enemies. If we refuse to help them, they will not survive. 
HRHOONDA: Her future is no concern of ours. Hrostar, she was under the force of the Zarbi. Why did you break it? 
BARBARA: Look, all we want to do is get away from here. These Zarbi that you seem frightened of, maybe we could help you? 
HROSTAR: Have you any weapons? 
BARBARA: No, but we 
VRESTIN: Watch her. 
HRHOONDA: If we let her go, she may tell the Zarbi where they can find us. 
VRESTIN: No. 
HRHOONDA: Even if she does not wish to betray us, they will extort it from her. 
VRESTIN: There are few of us and many of the Zarbi. She offers help. 
HRHOONDA: She is not to be trusted. I say kill her. 
VRESTIN: Hrostar. The Menoptra do not act without 
(Barbara takes the opportunity to knock over Hrostar and run out of the cave) 
HRHOONDA: Stop her! Stop her!

[Planet surface]

(Barbara trips, hears the mega-ants and runs again. I suppose I should call them Zarbi now) (Elsewhere, The Doctor and Ian are walking slowly) 
IAN: Strange lights in the sky. 
DOCTOR: Pulsating. 
IAN: Do you think they could be natural like the aurora borealis? 
DOCTOR: No, look down there, my boy, hmm? 
IAN: So thats where theyve taken the ship to. 
DOCTOR: Apparently so. Weve got to get down there. I wish we had more knowledge of what we were up against. Ah, this wilderness. 
IAN: Doctor! 
(They are surrounded by Zarbi, and woodlice, which are very curious about them) 
DOCTOR: The best thing is just to stand still. 
IAN: Maybe we could talk to them, make them understand? 
DOCTOR: Apart from rubbing our back legs together like some sort of grasshopper? I doubt if we could get on speaking terms with them. Stand still! Obey! These creatures on this planet are completely unknown to me. Just stand still and obey. 
(The Zarbi start to push Ian and the Doctor forward) 
DOCTOR: Remember those claw marks. 
IAN: Yes.

[Tardis]

(The Tardis has come to a halt, and the scanner is blank. Then the doors open) 
VICKI: Ian? Doctor? Is there anybody there? 
(Vicki leaves)

[Control room]

(Vicki steps into a room made of tendrils, then Zarbi come up to her)

[Entrance]

(Ian and the Doctor have arrived outside) 
IAN: Doctor, look at this. Its growing. 
DOCTOR: Organic matter, reproducing itself. 
IAN: Fantastic. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder. I wonder how long its taken to grow that size, eh? A hundred or two hundred years? 
IAN: Doctor, if your assumption was correct and this is Vortis, what do you know of its history? 
DOCTOR: History doesnt mean anything when you travel through space and time. All right, all right. Dont push, dont push!

[Control room]

(One of the Zarbi goes up to the Tardis, takes a step in then backs out again, spinning wildly. An alarm goes off. Then the Doctor and Ian enter> DOCTOR: My ship! The doors are open! 
(The Doctor rushes to the Tardis as Ian goes to Vicki) 
VICKI: Oh, Ian! Ian! 
IAN: Its all right, Vicki, Dont worry. Wheres Barbara? 
VICKI: I dont know. I was asleep. She must have left the ship. 
DOCTOR: Whats the meaning of this, child? Who tried to get in here? 
VICKI: I dont know! I dont know! 
DOCTOR: What do you creatures want?

[Planet surface]

(By the acid pool, Barbara is captured by a pair of Zarbi and dragged away, holding her arms in their mandibles) 
BARBARA: No! Ow! 
(She falls to the ground)

[Cave]

HRHOONDA: Vrestin, use that and we shall all be destroyed. The Zarbi are all around us. If you break communicator silence, they will know where they may find us. 
VRESTIN: If we do not contact our forces, they face destruction. We must warn them of the power of the Animus. 
HROSTAR: And of the strength of the larvae gun. 
VRESTIN: The Zarbi are massed together against us. 
(She changes the configuration of the crystal device, as Hrhoonda stands guard at the entrance) 
VRESTIN: Pilot party to Menoptra invasion force. 
(static) 
VRESTIN: Pilot party to Menoptra invasion force. This is Vrestin. Urgent report. Urgent report. 
(static.) 
HROSTAR: They are in reach of the enemy locators. They will not break communicator silence. 
VRESTIN: They will. They can echo their signals to us off satellite Taron. Menop spearhead, acknowledge reception. 
HROSTAR: Vrestin, its no use. The cave is cutting off our signals. 
VRESTIN: Yes. We must try again from outside the cave. 
HROSTAR: If they catch us, we must break the transmitter. 
HRHOONDA: Vrestin! Hrostar! The Zarbi!

[Planet surface]

(Barbara is being controlled, and leading the Zarbi to the cave)

[Cave]

(Hrhoonda tries to stave off a Zarbi with his crystal spear) 
HROSTAR: Vrestin, smash the crystals. Smash the crystals, Vrestin. 
(A larvae grub shoots Hrhoonda) 
HROSTAR: Vrestin, run! Get away! Get away! 
(Vrestin escapes out the back door. Barbara enters, wearing a large wish-bone style device over her shoulders. Hrostar removes it) 
HROSTAR: We are safe for the present. 
BARBARA: How did I get back here? 
HROSTAR: You were morphatised. Look! 
(He points at the device) 
BARBARA: I dont understand. 
HROSTAR: The Zarbi can control everyone, even us, the Menoptra, when they use that metal. 
BARBARA: It's gold. 
HROSTAR: Dont touch! 
BARBARA: I see. So it was the bracelet. What will they do to us? 
HROSTAR: We are to be taken to the Crater of Needles. 
BARBARA: And then? 
HROSTAR: They will put us to work. Once there you might well wish that you had not been spared. 
(A larvae pushes Hrostar away from Barbara and they force him to his knees and ...) 
BARBARA: No! (she looks away)

[Control room]

(The Doctor is trying to mime a message to the Zarbi.) 
IAN: Oh, the Doctors not getting through to them. 
(There's a beeping.) 
IAN: That sounds like an alarm. 
(The Zarbi push the Doctor into position under a delicate tube that descends over his head.) 
ANIMUS [OC]: Why do you come now?

Episode Three - Escape To Danger

[Control room]

VICKI: The Doctors speaking to someone. Why cant we hear what hes saying? 
(We can hear him.) 
DOCTOR: Who are you? We come in peace. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Peace? Is that why you attack? Where is your main force? 
DOCTOR: We are alone. We have strayed from our astral plane. 
ANIMUS [OC]: When will your invasion fleet arrive? What is its weaponry? 
DOCTOR: We are peaceful travellers from Earth. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You lie. You are the Menoptra. Our detectors show you are massing in space to attack. Speak! 
DOCTOR: I know nothing of these Menoptra. 
ANIMUS [OC]: We shall show you the fate which awaits all your ships, all your people. 
DOCTOR: Please listen to me. I have not finished my explanation 
(But the communication tube is raised and he is pushed to join Ian and Vicki. A larvae stands guard.) 
DOCTOR: Stand still. 
(A tendril from the wall takes aim.) 
IAN: Look at that, Doctor. 
(It fires at the Tardis but the energy rebounds, scattering the Zarbi.) 
VICKI: Look at them! Look at them! 
IAN: Whats happened? 
DOCTOR: Its unbelievable! Unbelievable! What did you do in the ship, child? What controls did you touch? 
VICKI: Well, I got thrown against the control panel and I just pressed any switches I could see. It suddenly became alive. I couldnt help it. 
DOCTOR: You have performed a miracle, my dear. You have re-aligned the fluid link. The power is back! 
IAN: If only Barbara were here, we could go. 
DOCTOR: Trying to destroy my ship you will achieve nothing. Nothing! I have great secrets in my ship. We could help you.

[Planet surface]

(Vrestrin is on a cliff overlooking the Zarbi headquarters. A Zarbi comes up from behind and she flies away)

[Control room]

ANIMUS [OC]: If your ship is proof against our weapons, remember you are not. Tell us the secret of its armour. 
DOCTOR: Impossible. I cannot tell you why my ship withstood the fire of that gun unless you tell me the principle its built on. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You demand my secrets? Yield yours. 
VICKI: What do you think the Doctor is saying? 
IAN: I dont know. I hope hes asking where Barbara is. 
ANIMUS [OC]: The great secrets you speak of in your ship must be used against the invaders. In return, I offer you your freedom. 
DOCTOR: Where is the fourth member of our party, hmm? Well? 
ANIMUS [OC]: She has been taken to the Crater of Needles beyond my great web. Will your secrets look into the stars? 
DOCTOR: I dont know what you mean, but I have an astral map, if that answers your question. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Will it show where the Menoptra are massing, where they will land? 
DOCTOR: I see. So its the Menoptra that are invading your planet, hmm? 
ANIMUS [OC]: Somewhere in space, beyond the range of our locators, they are grouping. They scatter false trails to mislead us. Their numbers are great. I am aware only of movement. 
DOCTOR: And you are not aware of their position? 
ANIMUS [OC]: This you must do. 
DOCTOR: I shall need assistance. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Bring your astral map out of your ship. 
DOCTOR: I shall need help even to do that. 
(He goes back to Ian and Vicki) 
DOCTOR: Now it is their turn to receive instructions. 
IAN: Tell us, Doctor. What happened? 
DOCTOR: Let us go back into the Tardis. 
(The Zarbi block Vicki's path.) 
VICKI: I think they must want to keep me here as a hostage. You go in. Ill be all right. 
(Outside, Vrestrin has followed the Zarbi to their headquarters)

[Tardis]

IAN: Oh. Oh, thats easier. No message from Barbara. Nothing. 
DOCTOR: Im just beginning to relax, my boy. 
IAN: Yes. Do you think that kidll be all right out there? 
DOCTOR: Er, yes, I think so. Yes, I must do something about this face of yours. 
IAN: Those beasties are keeping their distance this time. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it seems theyve learnt their lesson. Here, dab some of that on your face. Theres some cotton wool there. 
IAN: Thanks. What do you think they are, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
IAN: Those things out there. 
DOCTOR: Well, to use the term of Earth, I suppose we should call them insects. 
IAN: Ants? Ive seen a colony of ants eat their way right through a house. That size, they could eat their way through a mountain. Why are they that big? 
DOCTOR: Size is only relative. In this rarified atmosphere, it appears that evolution has chosen that particular form of life on this planet. 
IAN: Ants. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
IAN: So relentless, indestructible. What are we going to do? Have you got any ideas? 
DOCTOR: Well, its this voice. Its this, this, this, this, this Queen of the ants, you might say. If I can only trick her into neutralising this section of this area. I want you to try and track down Barbara, hmm? 
IAN: Well, all right. Did you find out where she was? 
DOCTOR: Well, it has something to do with this Crater of Needles. 
IAN: Crater of Needles? Wheres that? 
DOCTOR: The only clue I can give you, dear boy, its behind a great web. 
IAN: Thats not much help, is it? 
DOCTOR: No, it isnt. Come on, give me a hand. 
(They start to wheel out the astral map - a sort of cathode ray device on a trolley) 
DOCTOR: Oh, and by the way, I want you to take a couple of these. Theyll be very good for your breathing in this rarified atmosphere. 
(He hands over some tablets) 
IAN: Oh. What about Barbara and Vicki? 
DOCTOR: You leave Vicki to me, but when you do finally catch up with Barbara, see that she takes some. Shes probably had the same experience with breathing as we have. 
IAN: Mmm. Hold on a minute. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no. Dont unplug it. You must never do that. You must never break the time and relative dimension link. Come on.

[Control room]

IAN: Dont worry, Vicki. The Doctors got something up his sleeve. 
DOCTOR: Oh, its useless. Its useless! Come along, put me through, will you? Come along, drop this hairdryer, or whatever it is. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You have the information? 
DOCTOR: No, good gracious me, no. Some kind of force of yours has jammed my instruments and whilst it continues, I cannot use them. 
ANIMUS [OC]: I cannot suspend my functions for your experiments. 
DOCTOR: Very well, very well, take this thing away. Im afraid we cant help you to locate your invader. 
ANIMUS [OC]: I will withhold certain forces near your instruments. If you take advantage of this, you will die. 
(The Zarbi sink to the ground.) 
DOCTOR: Well, it appears, my boy, theyve obliged. Theyve neutralised and completely immobilised this section. 
IAN: Theres one way to make sure, Doctor. 
(The Zarbi moves when Ian tries to leave the room) 
VICKI: Ian! 
(It turns around and sits down again) 
IAN: Youve done it! 
DOCTOR: Its time you left. 
IAN: Yes. 
VICKI: Where are you going? 
IAN: Im going to find Barbara. Now, you look after the Doctor. Ill be back. 
(Ian leaves) 
DOCTOR: Come along, cheer up, cheer up, my child. Its all right. Yes, here. Have a piece of chocolate. There you are. 
VICKI: I dont feel like that now. 
DOCTOR: Oh, come, come, come, come. You dont have to worry about him. Hes very good at this sort of thing. Yes, hell be back. Hell be back. 
(Ian dives for cover in the maze of corridors as Zarbi walk past) 
VICKI: What are you doing, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh, Im trying to discover a little more about this invasion fleet, my child. The more we know, the safer it will be for us. 
MENOPTRA [OC]: Advance units, rendezvous. 
VICKI: Is that the Menoptra speaking? 
DOCTOR: Ill just turned up this booster. Wait a minute. 
MENOPTRA [OC]: Menop pathfinder to leader one. Range to Vortis, one four oh. 
DOCTOR: Just turn up the recorder. 
MENOPTRA 2 [OC]: Leader to Spearhead. Lock course on bearing two six five. Speed point oh one. We jettisoned craft at altitude five above Crater of Needles. Individual descent to Sayo plateau, north of the Crater. 
DOCTOR: Did you understand any of that, hmm? 
VICKI: Crater of Needles, or something. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Thats where theyve taken Barbara. 
(Ian is still trying to find his way out. He ends up wrestling with a Zarbi and manages to get it on it's back. Then a wall panel cuts off his escape and an alarm sounds. The Zarbi in the control get up) 
DOCTOR: It sounds as though were under attack, my dear. 
VICKI: Its Ian, I know it is. Theyve caught him. 
(Ian is thoroughly trapped, with a larva pointing at him. It fires its weapon, a panel swings open and he escapes to the outside)

[Zarbi HQ entrance]

(Vrestrin flies down and Ian runs off)

[Control room]

(Vicki has a gold collar on now) 
ANIMUS [OC]: You have tried to escape. Why? 
DOCTOR: I am still here. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Where is the third? 
DOCTOR: Why question me? Surely you can see our movements. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You will no longer be trusted. 
DOCTOR: Were we ever? 
ANIMUS [OC]: I can kill you all. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you can, but to what end? The information I have will die with me. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Information? Of the Menoptra invasion? Speak. 
DOCTOR: I am still collating the various readings of my instruments. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You lie. It is another of your tricks. 
DOCTOR: That is for you to decide. Am I really lying or do I possess this information, hmm? 
(The Doctor gestures for the Zarbi to remove the collar from Vicki.) 
DOCTOR: Away! 
(It does so) 
VICKI: Oh! Oh, Doctor. That thing made me go to sleep. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know, my dear, I know. I think Ive earned ourselves a little breathing space. 
VICKI: What did you tell them? 
DOCTOR: Nothing, nothing. 
VICKI: Are you going to tell them about the Menoptra? 
DOCTOR: Just about as much as I ever want to. Well see. Come, lets look busy. Now, I want you to nip into the ship and bring me back a little red box and in it is a recording compound. Youll find it on the left near the first aid kit. Go at once and come back immediately. 
(She does) 
VICKI: Is this it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I said a white box, child! Do you ever think! This is one of my specimens. Look. 
(He shows her the contents, a spider.) 
VICKI: Ew! 
DOCTOR: Now, take it back. 
(A Zarbi recoils at the sight of the tiny spider.) 
VICKI: Doctor, look! Its frightened. Im sure it is. Its frightened!

[Cliff top]

(Ian and Vrestin are keeping a watch on the Zarbi HQ.) 
VRESTIN: Heron? Do you still intend to go to the Crater of Needles? 
IAN: Yes, I do. 
VRESTIN: Many of my friends are enslaved there. They tear off our wings so that we may not escape. 
IAN: What do you expect when you invade a planet? 
VRESTIN: Invade a planet? Vortis is ours. We the Menoptra, are reclaiming it. 
IAN: Vortis is your planet? 
VRESTIN: Of course. They are returning to the Carsinome. They do not search for long. 
IAN: Those things invaded your planet? 
VRESTIN: You do not know our story? 
IAN: No, I dont. Tell me. 
VRESTIN: The Zarbi are not an intelligent species, but they were essential to the life pattern here. We lived at peace with them, until they were made militant by the dark power. 
IAN: The dark power? Whats that? 
VRESTIN: The Animus. At that time, the Carsinome appeared. Grew like a fungus. We had no weapons. We had not had the need. And by the time we sensed the danger, the Zarbi were too strong. 
IAN: So you left the planet? 
VRESTIN: We had no choice. 
IAN: Where did you go? 
VRESTIN: At that time, these strange moons appeared. One of them became our home, those of us who could reach it. 
IAN: Can you live up there? 
VRESTIN: It is a dim, half-world and our wings grow weaker. We must return to Vortis, for when the Carsinome encircles the planet, it will be too late. 
IAN: And now youre ready to attack? 
VRESTIN: No, we are not ready, but we must try. 
IAN: I see. And whats your part in all this? 
VRESTIN: Three of us were sent here to prepare the way for the invasion force. Now, I am alone. I do not know. 
IAN: What happened to the other two? 
(Vrestin whimpers.) 
IAN: They were killed. 
VRESTIN: One is dead. The other was taken to the Crater 
IAN: (Crater of Needles. 
VRESTIN: Friend Barbara? 
IAN: Yes, like friend Barbara. Vrestin, weve both lost friends. Come with me to the Crater. You know the country. We can collect your friend and mine. 
VRESTIN: There are many of my friends in the Crater of Needles. 
IAN: All the more reason to go. 
VRESTIN: Yes, Heron. We will do as you say. 
IAN: Good. Come on then.

[Planet surface]

VRESTIN: That is the way to the Crater of Needles. 
IAN: How far? 
VRESTIN: You cannot fly. It will take two hours. 
(Zarbi appear from behind rocks.) 
IAN: Vrestin, quick! This way! 
(They run along a cliff face to a cleft in the wall) 
IAN: Vrestin, quick. In here. 
VRESTIN [OC]: Get back! The grounds giving way! 
IAN: Here, take hold of my hand. 
VRESTIN [OC]: Let go! Youll be pulled down with me! 
(There's a rockfall and lots of dust)

Episode Four - Crater Of Needles

[Chamber]

(Ian and Vrestin have fallen into a chamber whose walls are decorated with strange symbols) 
VRESTIN: It seemed as if we fell a long, long way.
IAN: Yeah. Oh, look. Where are we? 
(They are surrounded by creatures using crystals for weapons)

[Crater of needles]

(In a big crater, with tall needles of rock, wingless Menoptra work for the Zarbi) 
HROSTAR: You are breathing too fast, Harbara. 
BARBARA: Oh, my eyes are so sore. Everything seems to to flare when I look at it. 
HROSTAR: It is the atmosphere of this planet. Rest. I will watch for Zarbi. 
BARBARA: Are your wings healed? 
HROSTAR: I shall never fly again. 
BARBARA: No. Why do they make us do 
(A Zarbi approaches and they start work again. It leaves.) 
BARBARA: Why do they make us heap this vegetation into the acid streams? 
HROSTAR: It is the raw material for the Carsinome, where the Zarbi live. Fed into these pools, it is drawn to the centre through underground streams, and as we pour it in, the Carsinome grows and reaches out across Vortis. 
BARBARA: Well, what lies at the centre? 
HROSTAR: None of us have ever seen it and lived, but we call it the Animus. 
(A Zarbi harries them again) 
BARBARA: Do you understand them? 
HROSTAR: No. They are just cattle. They do not have any speech nor motive of their own. Just controlled sentries. We came here to liberate them. It was disaster. Vrestin, the others, we arrived in advance of the spearhead. Our weapons proved useless. They were taken by the Zarbi who were everywhere. The three of us you met in the cave got away with the communicator, but we could not contact our spearhead. 
BARBARA: Well, when is it due to arrive? 
HROSTAR: Soon. 
BARBARA: And how will you overcome the Animus? 
HROSTAR: With a new invention of our scientists. It has not been tested but we have placed our faith in the Isop-tope.

[Control room]

(A Zarbi goes past with a weapon in its mandible.) 
VICKI: Doctor? Why dont we use the spider now as a weapon to get out of here? 
DOCTOR: Because I think we might find it more valuable later on, child, when Ian and Barbara have returned. 
VICKI: Do you think itll be safe where we put it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, a hundred percent! A hundred percent! 
(A Zarbi come in with a collar) 
VICKI: Oh no! 
DOCTOR: Use the spider, child! 
(But she can't get to it in time, and she is controlled. The communication tube comes down over the Doctor's head.) 
ANIMUS [OC]: You delay. Now the child will die. Thus you will learn total obedience. 
DOCTOR: If the child dies, therell be no reason left for me to obey. I have located your enemy. My calculations are complete. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You lie. 
DOCTOR: The Menoptra are massing on the planet Pictos. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Pictos? 
DOCTOR: It appears they are heading straight for Vortis. If you waste time in idle vengeance, in face of such an invasion, you will all be annihilated. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Where will the Menoptra land? 
DOCTOR: If I am given peace of mind for a while, I can find that out. That is, if its not too late. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Go. 
DOCTOR: Not before the child is released. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Go now. 
DOCTOR: First, the child, hmm? 
(The tubes rises, a Zarbi pushes a grub away from Vicki and takes the collar off her) 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor, it makes you feel so dizzy. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know, my dear, I know. 
VICKI: Peculiar. 
DOCTOR: I know. Be all right in a minute, hmm? 
VICKI: Did, did you tell that thing where the Menoptra are going to land? 
DOCTOR: Just about enough for our survival. If I tell them everything, our usefulness will be ended. Now, weve got to get out of here and I want to find a place to hide this recorder. I dont propose to make them a present of the place of attack. 
VICKI: There's another panic on by the looks of it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, theres no doubt theyve alerted their invasion forces. Theyve acted very quickly on the little information that I gave them. Now, while theyre busy I want you to nip back into the ship, find my walking stick and bring it straight back here. Hurry!

[Crater of needles]

(The alarm goes off here. A Zarbi knocks Barbara over) 
PRAPILLUS: (old man) It's some kind of alarm. 
HROSTAR: I hope they havent found the 
(The menoptra are herded into an enclosure)

[Chamber]

(Ian and Vrestin are being 'questioned' by giant caterpillars) 
IAN: We were chased! We fell! 
VRESTIN: They are too simple to understand, Heron. 
NEMINI: Hands in there. 
(Ian is pushed so his clasped hands dunk into some liquid which then solidifies around them. The same is done to Vrestin.) 
VRESTIN: Primitives, what is it you want from us? 
NEMINI: Hetra. 
HETRA: We know that from the roof comes hate! The liquid death! Creeping destroyer of we Optera. Yet you stand upright. We will consult the chasm of lights and if you come from above, you will die!

[Crater of needles]

(Food is being distributed) 
PRAPILLUS: Hrostar, is it the invasion? 
HROSTAR: The spearhead? Yes, I think so. 
PRAPILLUS: Then tell us what we must do. 
HROSTAR: Nothing yet. 
HLYNIA: Do nothing? But weve waited for generations for this moment. 
HROSTAR: And it will come, but a false move and all is lost. Success depended on surprise. If this is an alert, how did they know? Your Earth friends. This man of science you tell me of? Could he be helping them? 
BARBARA: No. No, Im sure he wouldn't. 
HROSTAR: How, then, do they know? 
BARBARA: Know what? 
HROSTAR: Our spearhead plan to land on Sayo Plateau, just above the crater here, to the north. 
BARBARA: Well, that doesnt mean to say that the Doctor told them. The Zarbi must be alerted everywhere, not just here. 
HROSTAR: With the Zarbi weaponry, they will be massacred. 
BARBARA: Are your forces armed? 
HROSTAR: With useless weapons. Our plan was for an attack on the Animus. We would have landed in secret, overcome the Zarbi, and destroyed the force that rules them by sheer force of numbers. 
BARBARA: A suicide army. 
HROSTAR: It would have been suicide to stay where we were. The invasion had to come now. We did not choose the time. It is now, and failure will mean failure for all time. 
PRAPILLUS: Hrostar, the spearhead must be warned. 
HROSTAR: But how? We smashed the signalling equipment. 
BARBARA: Look, we must get to the top of the plateau, intercept them and warn them. 
PRAPILLUS: Yes, we must. 
HROSTAR: There is a larvae gun pointed straight at this door. 
PRAPILLUS: We know. 
HLYNIA: I saw thirty or more Zarbi leaving the Crater by the great web. I do not think there will be many more left to guard us. 
BARBARA: Look, we must try. It only needs one of us to get through. 
HROSTAR: If only we could destroy the larvae gun. 
PRAPILLUS: I may do that. 
HROSTAR: You? How? 
PRAPILLUS: I know the Zarbi. 
(Prapillus pushes away a spar at the back of the enclosure.)

[Control room]

(The Doctor uses his walking stick to drag the control collar across the floor while Vicki uses spider to control the Zarbi) 
VICKI: Good! Youve got it. 
DOCTOR: Now the question is how to make it safe, hmm? 
VICKI: Its gold, isnt it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, theres no mistaking it, my dear. Gold and something more than gold. Gold is the symbol of power on this planet. Which brings me to an incident with Ian and his pen. 
VICKI: Ian and his pen? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it flew out of his hand just as he was about to give it to me. A gold pen. Now, we have got to find something to re-align this power. 
VICKI: What? 
DOCTOR: Yes, that is the question, isnt it?

[Crater of needles]

BARBARA: Any sign of him? 
(Prapillus is hiding behind a needle as the Zarbi moves away from the larvae gun) 
HROSTAR: Its left the larvae gun. Its our chance to destroy it. 
BARBARA: Destroy it? Well, cant we use it ourselves? 
HLYNIA: Only the Zarbi can control and fire them. 
HROSTAR: Get ready. 
(Prapillus throws a rock to distract the Zarbi) 
HROSTAR: Now! 
(Prapillus and Hrostar get the Zarbi on it's back while Barbara and Hylnia hold onto the larva's shell. Then Hrostar picks up the larva and squishes it against the crater wall) 
PRAPILLUS: Is the gun dead? 
HROSTAR: Yes. 
HLYNIA: I can lead us to the plateau. 
BARBARA: Well, come on then, quickly.

[Control room]

(The control collar is connected to the astral map) 
VICKI: Have you finished now, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think so, my dear. Well, now we know the Tardis is the opposing force, the question is, which is the stronger, hmm? 
VICKI: Whatll happen if youre wrong? 
DOCTOR: What will happen? Well, the astral map will be ruined, of course, but Im afraid we have no choice. Now just stand back a bit, my dear. 
(He flicks a switch and, bang!) 
VICKI: Doctor! 
(The Doctor puts his hand on the collar, and nothing happens to him. A Zarbi pushes him to the communication tube) 
VICKI: It was nothing! Just a fuse on one of our instruments. You. 
ANIMUS [OC]: The time to complete your findings. Report. 
DOCTOR: It is still incomplete. 
ANIMUS [OC]: Excuses. 
DOCTOR: No doubt your creatures told you about the explosion. (holds up the recorder) This is what caused the delay. You must wait. 
ANIMUS [OC]: What is it you hold? 
DOCTOR: Oh, nothing, nothing. Merely a piece of damaged equipment that happened 
MENOPTRA [OC]: Force on bearing two six five. Speed point oh one. We jettison craft at altitude five above Crater of Needles. Individual descent to Sayo Plateau north of the Crater. 
(End of recording.) 
ANIMUS [OC]: You were in possession of the information all the time. You will be dealt with when the invasion has been repelled. 
(Vicki is wearing the control collar again. A second Zarbi puts another collar on the Doctor)

[Planet surface]

(On a ledge the bottom of a cliff.) 
HLYNIA: The plateau is just above us. 
HROSTAR: We will remain here until the spearhead arrives. 
BARBARA: Well, at least we got here in time. 
HROSTAR: You stay on guard here, Hlynia. 
PRAPILLUS: The Zarbi are moving in, surrounding the plateau. 
HLYNIA: We must wait for the spearhead! 
HROSTAR: Then this Doctor must have betrayed us!

[Chamber]

HETRA: Every creature who invades our domain comes only to prey on us. You are guilty. 
NEMINI: Throw them in the fire chasm! 
IAN: Will you kill your own kind? 
HETRA: Listen, stranger, you are both from that wilderness above ground where the light blinds, the air chokes, where only destroyer races live and from where none of us who has gone forth has ever returned. You come foraging into our world only for new victims. Take them! 
(Ian is knocked to his knees) 
VRESTIN: Listen! This wilderness you speak of belongs to you. We are coming in our legions to destroy the dark power and its Zarbi slaves. HETRA: The Zarbi. 
VRESTIN: They seized this planet long ago, enslaved your forebears and mine who remained. They are spreading the poisonous web of the Animus to every corner of Vortis. 
NEMINI: As long as we kill intruders, we are safe. 
IAN: Dont you understand? You are Menoptra, like this. 
HETRA: The Menoptra? 
NEMINI: You speak of our Gods! 
(They bow to the symbols on the walls) 
VRESTIN: Your Gods? The Menoptra are your kinsmen. Your wings withered on your bodies while you crawled blindly underground, like slugs. You were born to the greatest freedom of all creatures. To peace, beauty and light! 
HETRA: It is death for us up there. 
VRESTIN: This is not your element. 
IAN: If you throw us into the fire, you destroy your own future. 
NEMINI: Prove what you say. 
VRESTIN: I am Vrestin, a leader of the Menoptra. We come to destroy the dark power who rules this planet. 
IAN: We need your help. 
(Vrestin opens his wings and the Optera bow.)

[Plateau]

BARBARA: Theyre not here yet. 
PRAPILLUS: I feel the Zarbi are watching. 
HROSTAR: Quietly! 
(Some Menoptra fly down) 
HROSTAR: Spearhead? 
HILIO: Codeword? 
HROSTAR: Electron. 
HILIO: Where is your pilot party? 
HROSTAR: Destroyed. Your force, get it off the plateau. 
HILIO: Why? 
HROSTAR: Our weapons are useless. The Zarbi have our rendezvous. Disperse the spearhead. They will be massacred. 
HILIO: It is too late. We are already committed to attack. 
BARBARA: Look! 
(Zarbi and larvae grubs are nearby. More Menoptra arrive, and the grub opens fire. The Zarbi are no match for them hand to hand either. Barbara and Hrostar run.) 
BARBARA: Theyre still following us. 
HROSTAR: Well try the craters edge. 
BARBARA: Well, come on, hurry. 
HILIO: Spearhead, retreat! 
(Menoptra fly off, Hrostar tackles a Zarbi) 
HILIO: We are surrounded. 
HLYNIA: No, follow me. 
(But she's wrong, they are surrounded.)

Episode Five - Invasion

[Plateau]

HROSTAR: Zarbi! 
BARBARA: Were surrounded. Come on! 
(But she runs into another Zarbi. Backing away, she falls against a section of rock face, which opens like a door, and they hurry through. The Zarbi and grubs cannot follow)

[Control room]

(The Zarbi are paying attention to flashing lights when Vicki opens one eye, then the other. As they are not being watched, she takes off the collar and uses it to pry the other one off the Doctor so he wakes up. Then she puts the non-functioning collar back on)
DOCTOR: Ohh!
VICKI: Shh!
DOCTOR: My dear, youre still wearing it. 
VICKI: Shh! Its all right. I took a chance and put it on. Youve done it. It doesnt work anymore. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, we must capitalise on your action. Now we know the necklace no longer works on us, perhaps the force-field is being reversed. I wonder. If that is so, I can control that necklace with this power of my ring. 
VICKI: What power does it hold? 
DOCTOR: Now, look, look. 
(A Zarbi walks past them. When the coast is clear again, he puts the collar on himself.) 
DOCTOR: Now, this is what I want you to do, child. When you (whisper, whisper) Understand? 
(They stand still, then Vicki sways forward attracting the other Zarbi) 
VICKI: Oh, whats happened? Where am I? (The Zarbi sees the second collar on the floor, and bends down to it. The Doctor puts his own collar around it's neck, then leads it around with his ring.) 
DOCTOR: Splendid. Splendid. 
VICKI: Doctor, youve done it. How marvellous! What next? 
DOCTOR: Well, I think we shall get our friend to take us out of here. Go outside. Jeep your eyes open. 
VICKI: All clear. 
(The Doctor leads his tame Zarbi out of the room)

[Carsinome Corridor]

VICKI: I thought wed have seen more of these creatures, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it appears they have gone to the plateau. 
VICKI: Well, there's one good thing. At least that spearhead'll make it easier for us to get out here. 
DOCTOR: Now, dont count your chickens, child. Theres quite a lot ahead of us. Now go on, cautiously.

[Temple of Light]

(This chamber is decorated, including Menoptra statues) 
BARBARA: Its beautiful, Prapillus. Oh, its absolutely beautiful! 
PRAPILLUS: It must be a Temple of Light. The ancient song-spinners of our race sang of their beauty, but I thought they could never be found again. 
BARBARA: There are others? 
PRAPILLUS: So the legends say. Sewn into the craters and plateaus of Vortis, been slowly un-woven by the silence of time and their entrances long forgotten by our species. But our Gods have not forgotten us, Barbara. This was indeed deliverance. 
HROSTAR: There is no sound. The Zarbi have gone. If one of us must explore 
BARBARA: No, not yet. They will leave guards. 
HILIO: All is not lost! 
PRAPILLUS: What are you? 
HILIO: Spearhead Leader Hilio. 
HROSTAR: Codeword? 
HILIO: Electron. 
HLYNIA: Prapillus, I brought him. 
PRAPILLUS: Hlynia! How? 
HLYNIA: There was a tunnel on the lower ledge where you left me. What, what happened on the plateau? 
HROSTAR: The spearhead has failed. 
HILIO: No! The spearhead must succeed. Which is the way back to the Plateau? I will recall my force. 
PRAPILLUS: No, Hilio. 
BARBARA: (What force? From what I saw of the battle, your spearhead was completely wiped out. 
HILIO: Who is this creature? 
PRAPILLUS: Our ally. 
HILIO: I do not trust her. 
BARBARA: You have no choice. 
HLYNIA: Hrostar, Prapillus, what shall we do? 
HILIO: Is it true? Are they all dead? 
PRAPILLUS: Dead, or prisoners by now. 
HILIO: Then our main force cannot know where to land. They too will be massacred. The Menoptra will be no more. 
PRAPILLUS: Hilio, the Menoptra have no wisdom for war. Before the Animus came, the flower forest covered the planet in a cocoon of peace. Our ancestors carved temples like this for resting places of our dead, but that was all the work we did. There were no other plans to make. Light was our God and we existed in light, flying above thought. Our banishment has taught us of enemies and weapons, and my captivity has taught me strategy. They tore my wings from me and I felt, as you feel, that all was lost. But if our Gods favour our survival, we must learn their lesson and use our brains and not our wings. This Earth woman we must trust, for she can show us how to exist without wings, to survive and flourish. What should we do? 
BARBARA: Well, what would have happened if the spearhead had been successful? 
HROSTAR: Had we met with no resistance, we were to proceed to the centre of the web and destroy the Animus. 
BARBARA: How? 
HILIO: With this. Our wise men designed it for use against the intelligence. 
PRAPILLUS: A living cell destructor? 
HILIO: Yes. The web, and the living thing behind it, grows and spreads its evil around Vortis. This destructor would have reversed the process, made the cells grow inwards and die. 
HLYNIA: The electron guns failed to work against the Zarbi. Would this have failed too? 
BARBARA: Well, theres only one way to find out. 
PRAPILLUS: Attack the Animus. Can we reach it? 
HILIO: It cannot work now. We are too few. 
BARBARA: The only alternative is to stay here, perhaps for years. 
HROSTAR: Both ways may mean our death. But hope lies in action. 
PRAPILLUS: Then its decided. We attack!

[Chamber]

(Ian and Vrestin have been freed from the glue) 
VRESTIN: The Optera have promised to help. Heron, can we trust them? 
IAN: We have no choice. 
VRESTIN: They have strength down here. Their fears of the surface may grow too strong. 
IAN: Its better than being thrown into the fire. 
HETRA: These tunnels breathe hate, and in the centre grows the root of evil, Poidarac! 
IAN: Root? 
VRESTIN: The Animus. 
IAN: Take us there. 
HETRA: Nemini will lead. 
NEMINI: Keep close to me. 
HETRA: Come.

[Carsinome entrance]

(The Doctor, Vicki and their tame Zarbi exit the Carsinome) 
VICKI: Hey. 
DOCTOR: Oh! Most unpleasant! Oh well, my dear, so far, so good, hmm? 
VICKI: Doctor, how are we going to find the Menoptra? They could be anywhere on this planet. 
DOCTOR: Yes, the Zarbis left here to go to the spearhead. Its just about. Yes, with luck we can follow their tracks. 
VICKI: Yes, look. 
DOCTOR: Lets get moving. (to the Zarbi) You may not believe it, but you nearly ended up as lost property. (the Carsinome makes a noise) And the same to you.

[Planet surface]

DOCTOR: Oh, must have a rest, child. 
VICKI: You know, Doctor, Im getting quite fond of Zombo. 
DOCTOR: What? 
VICKI: Zombo, its his name. I gave it to him. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I see, I see. 
VICKI: Hes quite cute, isnt he, when hes like this. 
DOCTOR: Well, I havent noticed it before, my dear, but since you mention it, no I dont think so. 
VICKI: Ive told you before not to judge by appearances. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Ill buy you a collar for him at the next stop. But just you remember, child, if we lose him, theres about two hundred or more ahead of us, just like that. Now, come along, come along.

[Tunnel]

(The passage is blocked by stalagmites) 
HETRA: Break the teeth of stone. 
IAN: Oh, the airs terrible. 
VRESTIN: Yes, they are more used to it than we are, Heron. 
NEMINI: The tunnel breathes vapour. 
HETRA: Not here, there. 
(they go down another tunnel) 
NEMINI: The wall is not friendly. We must break it. 
IAN: Whats wrong? 
HETRA: A silent wall. We must make m mouths in it with our weapons. Then it speak more light. 
IAN: Dig, you mean? Will it stand it? 
NEMINI: Ha! We try. 
VRESTIN [OC]: Heron! 
IAN: Coming! 
(Ian holds up some rocks to help Vrestin, then has to move quickly out of the way before they come tumbling down. The way behind them is blocked.) 
IAN: Now we have to go on. 
HETRA: Nemini, make mouth of light. 
VRESTIN: Heron, I cannot breathe. 
IAN: I know. The fall. 
VRESTIN: Breathe. 
IAN: Let in more gas. 
VRESTIN: Breathe. 
IAN: Dig! 
HETRA: Dig? 
IAN: Dig!

[Temple of Light]

(They've drawn a plan of the Carsinome in the sand) 
BARBARA: The best idea is still that we create a mock attack here in the south in order to draw off the Zarbi. Then whilst this is happening, one of us tries to get in the centre from the north. 
HILIO: It will fail. Even if it drew most of the Zarbi, it would require just one larvae gun to stop the real attack. 
BARBARA: Then what is your idea? 
HILIO: I could fly over the Carsinome and try and cut my way in from above. 
PRAPILLUS: No, the Carsinome is strong and vigorous. It would heal itself before you could cut your way through. 
BARBARA: Then were left with the mock attack. It isnt perfect, I know, but its all we have. 
HILIO: Very well, I will go in alone from the north. 
HROSTAR: No, I will go. 
HLYNIA: Quiet! Theres someone outside. 
BARBARA: Locks the doors! 
HROSTAR: Too late! 
HILIO: Hide! 
PRAPILLUS: If its Zarbi, the doors will not open. 
(But a Zarbi does enter.) 
DOCTOR: No! Do not attack him. Hes quite harmless. 
BARBARA: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara. Where is Chesterton, hmm?

[Tunnel]

IAN: Better? Its clearing. 
NEMINI: The vapour sleeps at our feet. Move slowly. 
HETRA: Nemini! Soon the mouth will appear. The walls are thin. 
NEMINI: The liquid hate from above. 
IAN: The acid pools. Get away! 
HETRA: No, no! She must block the mouth or we will die. (Nemini sacrifices herself to stop the acid from getting in) 
HETRA: It is danger that is always with us. Poidarac. It is well. Try down there. 
(Ian pays his respects to Nemini) 
VRESTIN [OC]: Heron, They have broken the wall.

[Temple of Light]

DOCTOR: A most detailed report. Yes, its interesting. 
BARBARA: Will it work, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I dont see why not, my dear. What is in the centre of the web, hmm? Do you know? 
HILIO: No. 
PRAPILLUS: No one knows. An alien from the darkness of space but the shape inside the cocoon. 
BARBARA: But if it arrived here from another planet, surely some one must have seen it? 
PRAPILLUS: Our legends of it only begin when it was already thinking itself into the crannies of Vortis and the minds of the Zarbi, spreading its web. 
DOCTOR: Where does it draw its power from, hmm? 
PRAPILLUS: Is there is power in the magnetic pole of the planet? That is where the web has its centre. 
DOCTOR: Yes, the magnetic pole, I see, I see. You mean it draws and uses the power from the planet Vortis. 
PRAPILLUS: Yes, Doctor. Their theory would would explain the new moons that have appeared in the sky. They too are drawn here by this power. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder why I didnt realise that before. The same force drew and holds the Tardis here. Yes, of course, its remarkable, most interesting. 
BARBARA: Doctor, do you intend to go ahead with the plan? 
DOCTOR: The plan? The plan. Yes, my dear, yes. Yes, but with a slight difference. 
HROSTAR: How different? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think well go ahead with the mock attack as planned, that will be your responsibility, my dear. A time we shall agree to. 
BARBARA: Yes, Doctor. 
HILIO: And this? 
DOCTOR: That, I shall take along with me. The girl and I will return to the Zarbi headquarters 
(Hilio keeps the Isop-tope out of the Doctor's reach) 
HILIO: Our wise men have put all their skill into this one Isop-tope. I cannot yield it to a stranger. 
HROSTAR: Wait. Can you take the Isop-tope past the Zarbi guards in safety? 
DOCTOR: Of course. I dont see why not? 
BARBARA: Prapillus! 
PRAPILLUS: Hilio, he is the first friend of the Menoptra ever to leave the Carsinome. We must trust the Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
(Hilio hands over the Isop-tope) 
DOCTOR: Thank you. I have great admiration for your wise men and their judgement. Now, my dear, is everything quite clear, hmm? BARBARA: Yes, Doctor. You will return to headquarters. Once youre safely there, we start the attack to draw out the Zarbi while you make for the centre. 
DOCTOR: Precisely. Come, child. 
VICKI: Doctor, have we got to? 
DOCTOR: Oh, now, now, now, cheer up, cheer up. I dont particularly want to go back there myself. 
VICKI: Its all right. I suppose we do have the best chance. Anyway, the Tardis is still there. 
PRAPILLUS: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, what is it? What do you want? Excuse me. Well, what do you want, hmm? 
PRAPILLUS: I wondered if we could borrow this creature? I think he would be very useful in our attack. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you think so, do you? 
PRAPILLUS: I have made a study of the Zarbi. I think I could make use of him. 
DOCTOR: You do? Better than I? 
PRAPILLUS: Please, I have no wish to offend, but you dont know the Zarbi as I do. 
DOCTOR: To control him, you will have to use my ring. And that is of untold value. 
PRAPILLUS: And what of the value of our Isop-tope? 
BARBARA: Is anything wrong? 
DOCTOR: No! No, my dear, no! 
PRAPILLUS: A small matter. 
DOCTOR: Our friend here has suggested that the creature goes along with your party. 
PRAPILLUS: And I was thanking the Doctor for his faith in our Isop-tope. 
BARBARA: Thats a very good idea, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? (he gives his ring to Prapillus) Here, take it! 
PRAPILLUS: May I know its secret? 
DOCTOR: You may not. Use it and return it. 
PRAPILLUS: Forgive me. 
DOCTOR: On your life, return it.

[Carsinome entrance]

(Inside the complex, the Zarbi are all motionless) 
DOCTOR: I think youd better take this, my child. (the Isop-tope) Itll probably be less conspicuous with you. Come on.

[Control room]

(The wall flashes and the Zarbi burst into action) 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Leave it me, child. Leave it to me.

[Tunnel]

HETRA: Poidarac is above us now. 
VRESTIN: Heron? What should we do? 
IAN: We go up.

[Carsinome entrance]

PRAPILLUS: Barbara, ready for you to give the word. 
BARBARA: Well wait. Make sure the Doctor has got to the control section.

[Control room]

(The Doctor and Vick are bundled into the room, and a tendril from the wall sprays a web over them)

Episode Six - The Centre

[Control room]

(As the raiding party take up positions outside, Vicki falls away from the Doctor and the communication device descends) 
ANIMUS [OC]: You attempted escape? 
DOCTOR: We have been on a slight exploration. 
ANIMUS [OC]: You have been brought back to me. 
DOCTOR: Brought back? We came of our own free will. We are not to be subjected like the Zarbis, or terrorised like the Menoptra! We are 
ANIMUS [OC]: You are of no further use except for the way you think. I need your intelligence. You will be brought to the centre, to me! 
VICKI: What do they want now? 
DOCTOR: Oh, we we shall be taken to the centre, child. Try, try not to be afraid.

[Carsinome entrance]

BARBARA: The Doctor will have reached the control section by now. Prapillus, we should send in the Zarbi.

[Carsinome Corridor]

DOCTOR: Ah, you never let me have the web destructor back again, child. We may not get another chance. 
VICKI: Doctor, I havent got it. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, I gave it to you. Come along, my child, come along, come along. 
VICKI: Its just that I havent got it now. 
DOCTOR: Well where is it, child? 
VICKI: Its in the astral map, I hid it there.

[Carsinome entrance].

PRAPILLUS: Zarbi coming. Are we ready? 
(Their tame Zarbi fights another one) 
HROSTAR: Prapillus, it will throw the necklet off. 
PRAPILLUS: Barbara, now! 
(Barbara distracts the Zarbi, then the Menoptra run in the other direction and shout at it.) 
HROSTAR: Zarbi! 
HILIO: Zarbi! 
HROSTAR: Zarbi! 
HLYNIA: Zarbi! 
(Her high-pitched voice seems to confuse it, but she lures it into the Carsinome, and comes out alone) 
HLYNIA: It will return with reinforcements. 
BARBARA: Well, that was the idea, wasnt it? 
PRAPILLUS: We must move into the corridors to make it more difficult for the Zarbi. They wont scatter us so easily. 
HROSTAR: I will take the first larvae gun.

[Tunnel]

(The party have reached a wall with roots growing down it) 
IAN: Look out! The acid again. 
VRESTIN: No Heron. It is water. 
IAN: Water? 
HETRA: Poidarac sucks goodness from our world. 
VRESTIN: Water. It sank below the surface when the Animus choked the soil. 
IAN: Well its still there, Vrestin. All you have to do is bring it to the surface. You can grow your plants again. 
HETRA: If we go up we meet the blinding heart of Poidarac. I have fear. Optera, stay. 
VRESTIN: Listen, Optera. Poidarac is evil. The Menoptra are stronger than evil. The world above is good. 
IAN: Vrestin, if this is a root, we cant lose our way. Why not leave them here? 
VRESTIN: No. They are descendants of my race. They can live in light. Come. 
HETRA: They stay. I go. If there is safety, I return for them. We go.

[Carsinome Corridor]

PRAPILLUS: Hrostar? 
HROSTAR: Yes, Im ready. 
BARBARA: What are they doing? 
PRAPILLUS: The Zarbi will have larvae guns. 
HILIO: This is the only way we can stop them. 
HLYNIA: If it works. 
PRAPILLUS: Get back, Barbara! 
(As a Zarbi and a larvae gun arrive, Hrostar takes the collar off the tame Zarbi and waits for the larvae gun to come closer. He manages to put the collar over the gun, but he still gets shot. The tame Zarbi runs off as Hrostar falls on the larvae, squashing it dead) 
HLYNIA: Oh! Hrostar is dead. 
PRAPILLUS: Then we must succeed so that Hrostar may lie at rest in the Temples of Light. Do not cry, Hlynia, there is work to do. Come. 
HILIO: (taking the collar from the corpse) The next gun is mine. Follow.

[Animus Chamber]

(This is a very organic chamber with bright light and something at it's centre) 
VICKI: Oh, can you see it, Doctor? Can you see it? 
DOCTOR: This infernal light is too bright for my eyes. 
ANIMUS: What Vortis is, I am. What you are, I will become. 
VICKI: Doctor! Doctor! Leave us alone, you parasite! 
ANIMUS: Parasite? A power, absorbing territory, riches, energy. culture! You come to me. VICKI: You filthy, great spider! You wont get us because we wont move! 
ANIMUS: Do not fight against it. Approach, approach, both of you. 
VICKI: I mustnt move, I mustnt move.

[Root wall]

IAN: There seems to be no end to it. Look out! 
(A piece of root breaks off and falls) 
IAN: All right? 
HETRA: The blinding dark is close now. 
VRESTIN: Heron, let us rest. 
IAN: No.

[Carsinome Corridor]

(Barbara glances into the control room and sees the Tardis with a Zarbi guarding it) 
BARBARA: Zarbi. 
HILIO: How many? 
BARBARA: I only saw one. 
HILIO: With larvae guns? 
BARBARA: No, I think he was alone. 
PRAPILLUS: Do not let him give the alarm, Hilio.

[Control room]

(But Hilio drops the collar in the struggle. Barbara picks it up and hands it to Prapillus who gets it onto the Zarbi) 
PRAPILLUS: This seems to be the Zarbi nest. How does the Animus control them? 
HILIO: Look, there! 
(The wall is flashing)

[Animus Chamber]

(The Animus has got the Doctor and Vicki entwined in its tendrils) 
VICKI: I cant, I cant struggle any more. Doctor, help me! Theres no one. No chance, and its all my fault. 
ANIMUS: What I take from you will enable me to reach beyond this galaxy, into the solar system, to pluck from Earth its myriad techniques and take from man his mastery of space.

[Carsinome Control room]

BARBARA: Look out! 
(The Menoptra struggle with the web guns in the walls. Hlynia stabs the wall with her crystal spear) 
PRAPILLUS: No, Hlynia!

[Animus Chamber]

ANIMUS: Zarbi centre wounded! Aliens in control.

[Control room]

PRAPILLUS: This sector seems to be paralysed. 
BARBARA: Oh look, this is the Doctors astral map. 
PRAPILLUS: Does it work? 
BARBARA: Yes, I think so. 
PRAPILLUS: Can we speak to the invasion force with it? 
BARBARA: Yes, if I can just find the right frequency. Where would you want it set? 
PRAPILLUS: To the planet Pictos, there. 
BARBARA: Now, try that. 
PRAPILLUS: Vortis to main force. Vortis to main force. Warning, repeat, warning, Electron guns useless against the Zarbi. Isop Plateau heavily ambushed. Wait for instructions. Reply. 
HILIO: Either it hasnt heard, or it doesnt trust us. 
BARBARA: Or I didnt set it right. I dont know, theres something wrong. This thing ought to light. Prapillus, look. Its the Isop-tope. The Doctor, he must have been captured. 
HILIO: Then we must take it to the centre ourselves. 
BARBARA: But why would 
HILIO: Theres no time to lose. 
PRAPILLUS: Hilio will take care of the Doctor. 
BARBARA: Hilio. 
PRAPILLUS: Hurry!

[Under the Animus]

(The surface above is organic and yielding) 
IAN: Give me this. 
(Ian takes Hetra's spear and tries to cut through the roof) 
IAN: Its like trying to cut your way through treacle. 
HETRA: The blind mouth of Poidarac will not let us through. 
VRESTIN: Heron, try.

[Carsinome Corridor]

HILIO: Remember, the Destructor must be aimed at the dark side of the Animus. 
PRAPILLUS: Zarbi! Theres no turning back. We must rush them. It only needs one of us to get through with the Destructor. 
HILIO: Now! 
PRAPILLUS: Zarbi! 
HILIO: Barbara! 
(Hilio throws the Isop-tope to Barbara, distracting the Zarbi so he and Prapillus can get through, followed by Hylnia) 
HLYNIA: Barbara! Barbara! Barbara! 
(Barbara then throws it to Hlynia and she gets through too) 
BARBARA: Theyre not following us. 
PRAPILLUS: Perhaps we were expected? 
HILIO: This must be the centre. Give me the Isop-tope.

[Animus Chamber]

(They rush in and are stunned by the sudden bright light) 
PRAPILLUS: Light! 
ANIMUS: All of you. 
HLYNIA: Light! Light! Light! 
PRAPILLUS: No, Hlynia, not this light! It is evil. 
HILIO: Barbara, the Destructor. Take it! 
VICKI: Barbara? Oh, Barbara! 
BARBARA: The dark side. I must aim it at the dark side. 
ANIMUS: Approach. Approach, Earth people. Your struggles are futile. 
BARBARA: It doesnt work! It doesnt work! 
ANIMUS: Escape is impossible. Impossible. 
(Behind the Animus, a familiar figure climbs up through the floor) 
BARBARA: Ian! 
ANIMUS: You are expected too. You have not the power. 
(Barbara falls, with the Isop-tope pointing upwards, and the Animus sounds worried.) 
ANIMUS: Power. Master them. Master them! The universe! 
(The light goes, smoke pours out of the source and the creature collapses on top of it, dead) 
VICKI: Its dead. Its dead!

[Planet surface]

(The Tardis stands alone, with no Carsinome around it.) 
(A Zarbi scrapes at the ground and a spring starts to flow, It drinks, and others join it. The Menoptra drive them off.) 
HILIO: Hlynia. Water. Drink, Hlynia. 
HLYNIA: Vicki. Vicki. Vicki. Vicki. 
VICKI: What is it? 
HLYNIA: Water! 
VICKI: It is! Why does it appear now? 
HILIO: Before the Animus, water flowed freely on Vortis. Now the evil is gone, our streams run pure again. Our vegetation will flourish. VICKI: Barbara. 
(Barbara is playing with a larva) 
VICKI: Barbara, come and look. Water. 
VRESTIN: Be strong. Be strong. The light is very good. 
HETRA: We fly like you? 
VRESTIN: No, but your children may fly. 
HETRA: We see. 
(Hetra tries flapping his tiny arms, and falls) 
VRESTIN: Be patient. 
HETRA: Without flight, how will the gods of light be kind to my people? 
VRESTIN: Vortis is strong by thought. We will work together. 
PRAPILLUS: If I had not lived til this time, I would have counted my life entirely wasted. Doctor, we owe you a great deal. 
DOCTOR: Theres only one thing you owe me, my friend. 
PRAPILLUS: And what is that? 
DOCTOR: That is my ring, hmm? 
PRAPILLUS: Your ring? Your ring, on my life. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, thank you. 
IAN: Well, they seem to be enjoying themselves up here. 
VRESTIN: The light is good. 
HETRA: Light is good. 
VRESTIN: Heron, will you come back to Vortis? 
IAN: Oh, I doubt it, Vrestin. But, knowing the Doctor, you can never be sure. 
PRAPILLUS: Vrestin, have you mended the communicator? 
DOCTOR: Well, my boy, weve managed to come out of this knot unscathed. 
IAN: Yes. All except my old school tie. 
DOCTOR: Yes, its quite a problem, isnt it. Its something to do with coal, wasnt it? 
IAN: Coal Hill School. An old Coal Hill School tie. Black with thin emerald green stripes on it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, quite so. Quite so. Come on. 
IAN: Barbara, Vicki. 
(One by one they enter the Tardis, and it dematerialises) 
HLYNIA: It disappeared! 
PRAPILLUS: Their deeds shall be sung in the Temples of Light. Pictos shall remind us of a time as it circles Vortis. Every time it points to the Needle of the Kings, as it does now, then we shall weave songs to praise the gods of light and thank them that they sent the Earth people to save us from the Animus. Now the Zarbi larvae feed the soil, the flower forest shall grow again across Vortis. But we must not allow the forest to conceal another lurking Animus. Welcome the main force. 
VRESTIN: Vortis to main force, Vortis to main force. 
MENOPTRA [OC]: Main force to Vortis. Main force to Vortis. Vrestin, where shall we land? 
VRESTIN: The dark power is dead. Fly in Menoptra to the delta of lights. We are waiting.

has a friend of mine. I've got to find her. 
IBRAHIM: El Akir will kill you. He's a very, very bad man. 
IAN: He's not the only one around here. Why do you say he's a bad man? 
IBRAHIM: He has made the rich people so poor so there is no one left to steal from. If you rid the world of him, you will be remembered as a saviour. I shall not betray you. 
IAN: Oh, well in that case, perhaps you can do something for me. 
IBRAHIM: Anything, my lord, anything, anything. 
IAN: Yes, on second thoughts, it might be a little difficult for you. I wonder, do you think you could manage to, er, steal some horses for me? 
IBRAHIM: Now you are truly, truly my brother. While you keep El Akir occupied, I will steal the horses from his stables. 
IAN: Good. 
IBRAHIM: You can always trust Ibrahim.

[Seraglio]

MAIMUNA: Fatima has betrayed us. You must get away. You will die if you stay here. 
EL AKIR: You hid her from me! 
BARBARA: Leave her alone! 
EL AKIR: Now I shall show you how I deal with those who do not obey me! 
(As El Akir raises his sword against Maimuna, he is stabbed in the back.) 
MAIMUNA: Father! Oh, father! I believed you were dead. 
HAROUN: There is great joy in my heart at seeing you. But come now. Your sister Safiya awaits you. 
BARBARA: Is Safiya alright? 
HAROUN: Yes. She told me of your sacrifice. I came here to give my life for you, my lady. 
BARBARA: How did you get in here? 
(Fatima enters and screams followed by Ian) 
IAN: Barbara! 
HAROUN: Get back! The guard! 
(Haroun and Ian overpower a guard who rushes in.) 
HAROUN: Quickly! Make haste. We must not stay here. 
IAN: Barbara, quickly. 
(Ian and Barbara leave. The other women gather around Fatima.) 
FATIMA: No! No! No! No!

[El Akir's palace - main gates]

IBRAHIM: You see? I was right, my lord. You did have gold. 
IAN: I acquired it. 
IBRAHIM: Like I acquired the horses. 
IAN: Yes. 
IBRAHIM: Now you are my truly, truly brother. 
BARBARA: Ian, we must get back to the ship. 
IAN: Yes, alright. Farewell, Ibrahim. Don't go acquiring too many things. 
HAROUN: Ride well, my brother. May Allah go with you. 
(Ian and Barbara ride off.) 
IBRAHIM: Really, such talent. He has such an honest face. We could have made a fortune. 
HAROUN: We must not stand here dreaming, you half-wit. The soldiers will be around us. 
IBRAHIM: This half-wit has stolen all their horses. 
HAROUN: They can still use their legs, can't they?

[Wood]

(Night sounds, owls and crickets. Richard's soldiers stand guard between Vicki and the Doctor, and the Tardis a little way away.) 
DOCTOR: They're between us and the ship. 
VICKI: Are these the soldiers who followed us? 
DOCTOR: Yes, they are. I wonder what they're up to? 
VICKI: Can we go round? 
DOCTOR: No, there's too many of them. Perhaps we can try? No, we can't do that. 
VICKI: Why not? What's happening? 
DOCTOR: Now I know why we've been followed. 
LEICESTER: Your messenger arrived. So they are traitors and making toward Saladin's encampment. 
SOLDIER: So it seemed to me, my lord. 
LEICESTER: Armed as they are with secrets, they are dangerous enemies. Do you have the wood encircled? 
SOLDIER: Yes. They can't get away. 
LEICESTER: The shadows are the only friends they have. We'll find them at daybreak. 
DOCTOR: It's that meddling fool, Leicester. We've got to try and slip through them. Remember, not a sound. Not a sound. In you go. 
(Vicki gets to the Tardis.) 
SOLDIER: Hold! Hold! 
DOCTOR: Take your hands off me, sir! What are you doing? Unhand me! How dare you! 
(Vicki and Barbara are outside the Tardis) 
VICKI: They've caught him! They've caught him! 
BARBARA: Vicki, it's all right. We'll get him away. 
VICKI: But how? What can we do? 
LEICESTER: So, I thought you'd show yourself. 
DOCTOR: What is the meaning of this, sir? The King gave me leave to go. 
LEICESTER: To Saladin? 
IAN: You are right, my lord. His treachery is well-paid by Saladin. He is a Saracen spy. 
LEICESTER: The truth at last. But I do not know you, sir. 
IAN: I am Sir Ian, my lord, Knight of Jaffa. I know this villain's treachery, and hearing that you were looking for him, I followed you. 
LEICESTER: To watch his execution? 
IAN: No, my lord. To administer it. 
LEICESTER: It is a paltry matter to be rid of him, but I would do it. 
IAN: It is no paltry matter to me, my lord. Some friends of mind were ambushed here. De Marun, de Tornebu. He's to blame. My lord, I beg of you, let me finish him. 
LEICESTER: Yours is the greater claim. Dispatch him then, and quickly. 
DOCTOR: Gentlemen, since I am to depart so punctiliously, I would ask you to grant me one last wish. 
LEICESTER: Granted. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. I would like to look once more upon the city of Jaffa. Then you may do what you will with me. 
LEICESTER: Granted. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, my lord. 
IAN: My lord. 
(and they walk away from Leicester to the Tardis) 
IAN: Hurry, Doctor, hurry! 
DOCTOR: What about that performance? 
BARBARA: Doctor, open the door! 
(They all enter the Tardis) 
SOLDIER: Shh! Do you hear a voice? 
LEICESTER: A voice? 
SOLDIER: A woman's voice. 
LEICESTER: Have we been tricked? 
(They get to the Tardis as it dematerialises. They cross themselves in fear.) 
LEICESTER: We will not speak of this. Let this story die here in this wood or we'll be branded idiots, or liars. Poor Sir Ian, brave fellow. Spirited away by fiends. What dreadful anguish and despair he must be suffering now.

[Tardis]

IAN: Any more cracks about knighthood, and I'll carry out that execution. 
DOCTOR: Well, my dear boy, I must say I think you've earned a good knight's sleep. 
DOCTOR: Now, I suppose, the Tardis will materialise when it's ready. 
BARBARA: Yes, and where it likes. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear young woman, why don't you go have a cup of tea or something. 
(The Tardis goes dark except for the control column.) 
IAN: What's happening? 
DOCTOR: I don't know.
(everyone stands motionless)


[Tardis]

(This planet has an array of spaceships on it. The Tardis materialises, and everybody is wearing their ordinary clothes, not the Crusader ones they had on when they became immobile at the end of the last episode. The Doctor moves first, then Vicki.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, lights. Oh, thats better. Ah, good! Well now, we seem to have materialised much quicker than I thought. 
IAN: Doctor, weve got our clothes on. 
DOCTOR: Well, I should hope so, dear boy. I should hope so. 
BARBARA: No, Doctor. Our ordinary, everyday clothes. 
DOCTOR: Well, upon my soul, yes. Yes. Now isnt that extraordinary? Yes, we were wearing those cloaks and things, werent we? Well, I must say, its going to save us a lot of bother changing. Yes. Now, lets see where we are, shall we? 
IAN: Doctor! You cant dismiss it like that! We were standing here in thirteenth century clothes. We cant suddenly 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, its over and done with. Now lets forget it. See where we are. Come along, pay attention. 
VICKI: But Doctor, where are the clothes we were wearing? 
DOCTOR: I expect, child, theyre hanging up where theyre supposed to be. If youre that much concerned, go and have a look. 
VICKI: All right. I will. 
DOCTOR: And on your way back, bring me glass of water please, Im very parched. 
VICKI: Okay. 
(Vicki leaves) 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear, dear. Now where were we? All this fussation about a change of clothes. You know, its so simple. Its time and relativity, my dear boy. Time and relativity. Thats where the answer lies. 
IAN: I dare say it does, Doctor, but wed be a lot happier if you would explain it to us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I know. Well, at the moment there isnt time. Now, just pay attention, will you? (Looking up at the scanner.) Whats this? 
VICKI [OC]: Doctor! Our crusading clothes are here. 
DOCTOR: Good, good! There you are, you see? Yes, you see?

[Tardis living area]

(Vicki gets a glass of water from the dispenser, but drops it. Then the broken pieces reverse and reform into a complete glass of water again)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Well, the scanners functioning. Looks like desert to me. 
BARBARA: Oh look! Spaceships! 
(On the scanner, the multitude of spacecraft appears.) 
BARBARA: Well, its so quiet, it could be a graveyard. 
IAN: No, more like a launching pad to me. Maybe its a dumping ground. 
DOCTOR: No, I dont think so, my boy, no. No, all those things up there come from a different period. 
BARBARA: Well, there isnt any sign of life. Look! Theres a building. What do you make of that, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, Im afraid I cant give you any answers here, my dear. 
IAN: You mean you want to go and have a closer look, eh? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I dont see why not. After all, the readings say its quite safe. 
BARBARA: Safe? Well the readings dont always tell us everything, you know. 
(Vicki brings the glass of water and the Doctor drinks it) 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you, my dear. Thank you. So you dropped a glass, did you? 
VICKI: Yes, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Well, dont look so concerned, child. Its quite easily replaced. 
VICKI: Doctor, it doesnt have to be. It all came together again and jumped up into my hand. Well, if you dont believe me, you can go and look. There hasnt been time to clear it up yet. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, yes, we believe you, child. Yes, we believe you. 
VICKI: Honestly, thats exactly what happened. 
BARBARA: You dropped a glass, and it came together again in your hands? 
VICKI: With the water in it. 
DOCTOR: Well, look! Look! You see where weve landed? On a museum. 
IAN: A museum? 
BARBARA: A space museum, yes! 
DOCTOR: Precisely. If you take a closer look at those objects, youll see that some of them are more advanced in design. Its quite a natural progression. 
IAN: Oh, well, someone must be in charge of them. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we shall find that out. And Im sure you will agree with me, there are several things that we would like an answer to. So I suggest we go outside and take a look for ourselves, hmm?

[Planet surface]

IAN: Dust everywhere. Maybe you were right about the graveyard. 
(The Doctor locks the Tardis) 
VICKI: Hey, Doctor. Come here and have a look at this. 
DOCTOR: Well, isnt that extraordinary? Ive never seen erosion in such an advanced stage. The whole planet appears to be completely dead. 
IAN: Dead? 
DOCTOR: Non-existent, extinct. 
IAN: Oh? Ive always associated extinction with extreme cold. You know, something like the dark side of the moon. Havent you? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Well, I must say, the atmospheres quite pleasant. 
IAN: Yeah. 
BARBARA: Well, maybe itll get colder as it gets dark. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think we shall just have to go and search for the answers, and as theres always the element of danger in the unknown, I suggest we keep closer together. Is that clear? 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Vicki? 
VICKI: Oh, er, yes, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Good, good. Now Ill take the lead and lets try and find those buildings we saw on the scanner. 
IAN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh, what is it now, dear boy? 
IAN: Were walking on dust. Several inches thick, Id say. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, so it appears, hmm. 
IAN: Then why arent we leaving any footprints? 
DOCTOR: Yes, thats curious, isnt it? Yes, very curious.

[Museum entrance]

(The walls of the museum are made of something very alien, with triangular bits sticking out to form a texture) 
BARBARA: What an extraordinary building. 
IAN: Yes. This looks like the only door. 
BARBARA: No windows either. 
DOCTOR: Well, we certainly havent met anyone yet. 
VICKI: Maybe there isnt anybody. 
DOCTOR: How are we going to get in there? 
IAN: Well, I dont know. There doesnt seem to be any way of opening the door. 
BARBARA: Have you noticed something? I mean something very peculiar. 
IAN: Well, everythings peculiar. 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara, if youve seen something or somebody, theres no sense in talking in riddles, is there? 
BARBARA: No Doctor, not seen. Its the silence. When we stop talking, there isnt a sound. Listen. Its the sort of silence you can almost hear. 
IAN: More and more like a graveyard. 
DOCTOR: Oh, thats quite enough. Now stop it. You'll have us all imagining things. There must be an explanation of this little 
(The doors open showing two people coming towards them) 
IAN: Theres someone coming! 
DOCTOR: Hide quickly! 
VICKI: Where? 
DOCTOR: Up against the wall. Quick! 
(Barbara stops Vicki sneezing as two men in white approach. But as they go past Vicki does sneeze) 
VICKI: Im sorry! It just came out. 
BARBARA: Its all right, Vicki. They didnt hear it. 
IAN: They were only a few feet away. 
BARBARA: I know. 
DOCTOR: Its extremely doubtful that they were both deaf. However, the fact is, they didnt hear. Now, lets see whats in here.

[Museum entrance hall]

(Some mechanical equipment and a spacesuit on display) 
BARBARA: Well, there arent any windows. 
DOCTOR: No, I think theres probably something in the atmosphere that, er, has a very slow destructive property, er, hence the lack of windows. 
BARBARA: Yes, but I dont understand where the light comes from? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I think that might just be some florescent substance in the walls. Yes, well, I think you two must admit that my assumption as to where we were, has been proved correct. 
IAN: Yes, we might almost be in a museum at home. 
VICKI: Except that there are no little men following you about telling you not touch things. 
DOCTOR: Well, you just pretend there are, young lady, and keep your hands to yourself. 
BARBARA: Well, everything seems quite normal. 
DOCTOR: Well why not? Why shouldnt it be? Its quite natural. After all, you have objects of historical interest on Earth, so why not a museum in space? I always thought Id find one someday. 
IAN: Those two men we saw must have been guards. Who started all this, do you think, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I suppose the answer's here somewhere. Thats what weve got to find out. Lets go and have a look in that other room.

[Museum Exhibit room]

DOCTOR: Chesterton! 
IAN: It cant be! 
(The adults recoil at the sight of a large pepperpot with a bad disposition, but it is only an exhibit labelled Dalek, Planet Skaro.) 
VICKI: So thats what a Dalek looks like. 
DOCTOR: Dont touch, child. 
BARBARA: What do you know about them, Vicki? 
VICKI: Only what Ive read in history books. That they invaded Earth about three hundred years ago, was it? 
IAN: We were there, Vicki. That was one of the periods we visited. 
DOCTOR: I dont mind admitting, my boy, that that thing gave me a start. Coming face to face to it again. 
VICKI: Its not a bit the way I imagined it. Oh, I mean, the books describe them all right but well, this one looks quite friendly. 
BARBARA: Friendly? 
IAN: You wouldnt say that, young lady, if ever we meet them again. Which to say the least is very unlikely. I hope. 
DOCTOR: Back. Get behind the case. Quick. Quick. Quick. Dont touch it. 
(They crouch down as two young men in black enter the room. They appear to be talking although we don't hear them. They look around then leave.) 
IAN: All right. Theyve gone. 
VICKI: They were talking. 
DOCTOR: Undoubtedly. 
BARBARA: Yet we didnt hear a word they said. 
IAN: No. Perhaps they have some other means of communication. You know, on a very high frequency, or. No? Not very good? 
BARBARA: What do you think, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I dont know. Chesterton might have had the answer in what he just said but, er, I doubt it, I doubt it. Come on. Come on.

[Another Museum room]

IAN: Well, they didnt seem hostile. Thats something to be thankful for. 
BARBARA: Oh, I dont know. Even the Daleks are friendly to some. 
IAN: Vicki, yes. 
BARBARA: Anyway, even if they are friendly, I doubt if well get much conversation out of them, unless one of you can lip-read. 
(Vicki tries to touch an exhibit but her hand passes through it) 
VICKI: Doctor! Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Child, dont make so much noise. Whats the matter? 
VICKI: I touched that thing and 
DOCTOR: I thought I told you not to touch. When are you going to learn to obey me? How you 
BARBARA: All right, Doctor. You can save the scolding till later. Look, cant you see that Vickis upset? 
DOCTOR: Upset? Upset? Whatever for? Why are you upset child? Whats the matter? 
VICKI: I touched that thing and my hand went right through it. 
(Ian tries to touch the apparatus too) 
VICKI: See? There isnt anything there, is there? 
DOCTOR: Incredible. 
VICKI: Well, there is something there, isnt there? I mean, we can all see it, cant we? 
BARBARA: Yes, of course we can, Vicki. 
DOCTOR: Thats strange. Strange indeed. You know, there must be a logical explanation for this somewhere? You know, I think its just a matter of putting two and two together to make three. You know there is 
IAN: Doctor, look. 
(three black-clad men have entered) 
VICKI: Oh, quick, lets hide! 
BARBARA: Well, where can we hide? Doctor, what shall we do? 
DOCTOR: Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Stand exactly where we are. 
(the three men walk past them) 
IAN: What do you make of that? 
DOCTOR: Ive never known anything in my life. In all my years of time travelling, I 
VICKI: That one looked straight at me. 
DOCTOR: Utterly unbelievable. 
VICKI: And he was talking. His lips were moving. 
DOCTOR: Yes, so strange. And yet we have no communication with them. 
BARBARA: Well then, obviously they couldnt see us. I mean, were strangers, our clothes are different. If they had seen us, they would have made some sign, however slight. 
IAN: Right, were invisible. That settles it. 
DOCTOR: Does it, my boy? Does it? Either that or were not really here.

[Museum Exhibit room]

(another one) 
IAN: Its the biggest museum Ive ever been in. We must have walked for miles. 
VICKI: And all the rooms are exactly the same, just cases and cabinets. Im beginning to think the Doctors wrong. 
IAN: Oh? 
VICKI: Well, how can we find the answer in here? 
DOCTOR: I have no idea, my child, but until I say otherwise, we continue the search. Now, let us see whats in here, hmm? 
BARBARA: Oh, same as all the others, I suppose. 
(and there's the Tardis) 
DOCTOR: Good gracious me! 
IAN: Well, how did that get in here? 
BARBARA: What does it matter? Look, now that weve found the Tardis, come on, lets get out of here. 
IAN: Yes, I agree, its a stroke of luck. Lets leave at once. 
VICKI: Ive had enough of this place, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Youve all decided, have you? 
(But the Tardis isn't tangible) 
DOCTOR: Yes, Im afraid its going to be a little more difficult than that. The mists are beginning to clear slightly. Im just beginning to see reason. Where are we? Where are we? 
BARBARA: Well, here, surely? 
DOCTOR: Are we? We must have arrived here in the Tardis sometime. Are we here? Look! 
(Then they see themselves in exhibit cases) 
BARBARA: Thats us. Thats not models or pictures. Thats us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, exhibits in a Space Museum. 
IAN: Can you explain it, Doctor? 
VICKI: Time, like space, although a dimension in itself also has dimensions of its own. 
DOCTOR: So you know about it, child? We must have a little chat some time. 
VICKI: Yes, you see, we really are in those cases, but were also standing here looking at ourselves from this dimension. 
BARBARA: Well, its horrible. Those faces, our faces, just staring. 
IAN: Well, at least it explains whats been happening to us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it does, my boy. And if were not there, we cant leave footprints, and break glasses, or touch things. 
IAN: And nobody can see us. I see. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, they can. Oh yes, they can see us where we really are. There. 
BARBARA: Is there anyway of getting out of this, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, my dear, I suppose we got into it. There must be. You know, I dont mind admitting, Ive always found it extremely difficult to solve the fourth dimension. And here we are. Face to face with the fourth dimension. You know, I think the Tardis jumped a time track and ended up here in this fourth dimension. Its extraordinary. Its inexplicable. No, wait a minute, wait a minute. I think youre all going to be delighted. Im going to come up with the answer and its so simple. Yes, so simple. 
BARBARA: How simple? 
DOCTOR: All we have to do is to wait here until we arrive. 
BARBARA: I beg your pardon? 
DOCTOR: You see, my dear, before they actually put us in those glass cases, we must have arrived here sometime in the Tardis. These people saw us and thought we were worthy people to be put in their Space Museum. Then 
BARBARA: I see! I think. 
DOCTOR: But nothing has happened to us yet. What we are doing now is taking a glimpse into the future, or what might be or could be the future. All that leads up to it, is still yet to come. 
VICKI: Doctor, look. Why dont we go and find the Tardis, the real one I mean, and get into it and get out of here now? 
DOCTOR: And end up one day, my dear, like that? No, we must not. Weve got to stop it happening. 
IAN: Doctor, when will we arrive? 
DOCTOR: I don't know, my boy, I cant be certain. You see, Im quite unable to measure the time dimension that the Tardis jumped. But youll notice were all wearing the same clothes. So, it could be in a few moments, or a few seconds. 
BARBARA: Well, how will we know when we have? Arrived, I mean. 
DOCTOR: The cases will disappear and we shall all become visible. 
IAN: And from that moment well be in great danger. 
DOCTOR: Precisely. So you see we must succeed in stopping them making exhibits of us. Otherwise, well, there it is. Thats how were all going to end up. 
BARBARA: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
BARBARA: Something strange is happening! I can feel it.

[Tardis]

(The four figures in Arabian clothes change into sixties clothes. A glass breaks and stays broken. Two white-clothed men find the Tardis and see the footprints in the dust.)

[Museum Exhibit room]

(The cases and their occupants disappear, and the group unfreeze) 
BARBARA: Theyve gone. 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear. And weve arrived.

Episode Two - The Dimensions of Time

[Governor's office]

(A white-clothed man brings a piece of equipment in and puts it on a table) 
TECHNICIAN: Best I could do sir. It should be good for another hundred years or so. 
LOBOS: (the governor) What was wrong with it? 
TECHNICIAN: Well, the clasps had broken, rotted. 
LOBOS: Like everything on this planet, including us. Well, Ive got two more mimmians before I can go home. Yes, I say it often enough, but its still two thousand Xeron days and it sounds more in days. Yeah, I know, I volunteered, you were ordered. If the truth were known, I was just as bored on Morok. Still it was home, and youth never appreciates what it has. Oh, I dont know what Im going to do now. Still, lets get on with it, shall we? I have to sign these reports. I dont know. 
(a messenger enters) 
LOBOS: Im the governor of this planet. Youre supposed to show some respect and knock. 
MESSENGER: Im sorry, sir, the matters urgent. 
LOBOS: Nothing's so urgent you cant knock on my door. 
MESSENGER: A ship has landed. 
LOBOS: From home? There was no advance notification. 
MESSENGER: Not from the planet Morok. Alien. 
LOBOS: Alien? Well, this will indeed be a red letter day for the Xeros calendar. Have the crew been detained? 
MESSENGER: No, sir. Theyve left the ship. Weve found footprints but no trace of them. We were unable to enter the craft but it appears to be uninhabited at the moment. 
(Lobos gets on the intercom) 
LOBOS: Commander B Division? We have uninvited visitors. How many? 
MESSENGER: Unknown, but at least three. 
LOBOS: Three or more. Organise a search then detain them for questioning. Visitors? We wont be the only ones looking for them. 
TECHNICIAN: The rebels? 
LOBOS: Rebels? This local rabble? Theyre children. 
TECHNICIAN: The children, as you call them, are growing up. 
LOBOS: When they pose a danger, we will destroy them. Until then, the problem will keep. Nevertheless, theyll try and contact our visitors for help. I must remember to notify the commanders to keep watch. As for the aliens who have just landed, we may even be able to add to the museum.

[Xeron hideout]

(The black-clad men gather) 
SITA: Tor is late. Its not like him. 
DAKO: I know. He did contact the group in the next sector? 
SITA: Yes, but the Moroks are out checking. If they found him missing, they could have pulled him in for questioning. Oh no, hes just been detained. Stop worrying about it. 
DAKO: Stop worrying? Look, were just waiting to be rounded up. 
SITA: I suppose Tor knows what hes doing. 
DAKO: Huh, does he? Im beginning to wonder. I know the Moroks have ray guns and were unarmed, but our only chance is to strike. The longer we leave it, the greater the risk. 
(enter young Jeremy Bulloch) 
TOR: But well only get one opportunity, Dako, and when we attack weve got to win. 
SITA: Tor, youre late. 
TOR: I know, something's happened. The Moroks have discovered a spaceship. 
SITA: A spaceship landed here? 
DAKO: Where from? 
TOR: Nobody knows yet. Theyd already left it before the ship was found. 
SITA: It doesnt make much difference. Theyll contact the Moroks anyway. 
TOR: No, I dont think they will. Theyve had time to do that and they havent. Lobos is organising a search. 
SITA: A search? 
DAKO: Tor, I dont understand. Look, everybody knows what this planets used for. A museum. Well, if they came here knowing that, and they must have done, it can only be to see the Moroks. 
TOR: The universe is huge. There must be millions of planets that have never heard of the Moroks. 
SITA: They could have landed here by accident. 
TOR: Well, either way, its our chance. Well, dont you see? Theyll have weapons, weapons we can use. 
SITA: If they agree to help us. 
TOR: They will, Sita, when they hear our story. 
DAKO: But the Moroks are searching. Youve already said that. Theyll find them first. 
TOR: No, I dont think theyll want to be discovered when they find out about this place. 
SITA: If they hide, theyll hide from us too. 
TOR: I know, but weve got to try. Come on.

[Museum Exhibit room]

(Ian, Barbara and Vicki are lifting the case cover off a weapon) 
IAN: Can you hold it? 
BARBARA: Yes. 
VICKI: Hurry up, its heavy. 
(Ian gets the gun) 
IAN: All right. Hey, I wonder if it works, hey? (makes rat-a-tat noises) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, this is no time to be playing cowboys and indians. 
IAN: Doctor, I might have shot a hole right in the middle of you. 
DOCTOR: Is that so? We have a very serious problem on our hands, and what are you doing with this anyway? Put it back in there. 
IAN: No, Doctor, this might come in very useful. We might be able to bluff our way out of here with this. 
BARBARA: If we want to get out of here. 
VICKI: Oh, we cant stay here, Barbara, can we? 
BARBARA: We must do whatever is necessary to keep us out of those cases. 
VICKI: I dont see that staying here would stop it. 
BARBARA: We must break the chain of events that led up to it, and going out of here might be just what were not supposed to do. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think Barbaras quite right, my dear. If we walk out of here, it could change the future. Perhaps if we wait until were taken out, that might change the future. The point is, what are we going to do? Which is it to be? 
VICKI: But Doctor, if we find the Tardis and leave here, then we wont have to worry about being turned into dummies at all. 
IAN: Thats a good point, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: It isnt a good point at all, my dear boy. The fact is the future, our future, whether we leave here in the Tardis or not. 
IAN: Yes, I see. Its a difficult problem, isnt it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it is. 
VICKI: Theres no answer. But, Doctor, weve got to decide on something. 
DOCTOR: Decide, my dear? Spinning a coin would be just as appropriate. Who would want to put us on show or display, I wonder. 
BARBARA: The Doctors curious. That means we stay. 
VICKI: Youve lost a button. 
IAN: Oh, so I have. 
DOCTOR: Lost a button? Hmm, thats interesting. Yes, thats very interesting. 
IAN: Doctor, why do you always show the greatest interest in the least important things? 
DOCTOR: The least important things sometimes, my dear boy, lead to the greatest discoveries. Like steam, for instance, coming out of a kettle. Yes, I was with him at the time. Lets see now, yes, what was that fellow's name? 
BARBARA: James Watt. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you know, losing a button could change the future. Its a pity, my dear boy, you didnt discover it was missing in the cases when we were standing there staring at each other. 
IAN: Doctor, Id just come face to face with myself. I wasnt counting the buttons on my jacket. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I quite understand that. Well, I think we should leave the Museum, try and find the Tardis, and make sure that it doesnt end up in here. Are you all agreeable? 
VICKI: Yes! 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Come along, then. Come along.

[Museum corridor]

DOCTOR: All right, my boy. You lead the way. 
IAN: Yes. Well, which way? Have you any particular fancy? 
DOCTOR: The way we came in, of course. 
IAN: And which way was that? 
DOCTOR: Your memory is like a sieve, dear boy. We turned right and then left. 
VICKI: No, no, we turned right when we came in. 
IAN: No, we turned left when we came in. 
BARBARA: Well actually, all the doors and corridors are exactly alike. 
DOCTOR: I beg to differ, You see, you must turn right before you turn left. 
IAN: Doctor, it depends which way youre facing before you start turning at all. 
DOCTOR: We were facing from there, down here, therefore 
IAN: Doctor, why dont you admit it. You are just as lost as the rest of us? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose I must confess I am. Anyway, I suggest we take Vickis advice. We can always re-trace our steps. So, we go this way and turn right. Right. 
(And off they go.) 
BARBARA: Well, I dont remember this. 
VICKI: I do. 
IAN: Oh, you're just saying that because we followed your advice. 
VICKI: Oh no, Im not. I remember that thing being over there. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think Vickis quite correct. Yes, I have a distinct impression weve all been here before. Yes, of course. Yes, yes, yes, yes, I know where we are now. 
IAN: You do? Well, which way do we go? 
DOCTOR: Er, er 
VICKI: Straight ahead? 
DOCTOR: Straight, straight ahead, my dear boy. Straight ahead, yes, and turn right.

[Governor's office]

(The intercom buzzes) 
LOBOS: Yes? 
COMMANDER [OC]: Commander K division. Alien spaceship in hand, sir. 
LOBOS: What news of the aliens? Repeat, what news of the aliens? 
COMMANDER [OC]: Footsteps were found near the Museum. The search is proceeding. 
LOBOS: Good. Find them.

[Museum]

BARBARA: Its like a maze. 
IAN: Well, if we keep going, we must eventually come to an entrance. 
DOCTOR: No more talking please. I think were nearly there. 
(Tor is coming round the corner behind them) 
DOCTOR: And remember, we can be seen by now. 
(Our group walk on) 
SITA: That must be them. 
DAKO: And theyre armed! 
TOR: Quick, back here. Ill see which way they go, then well try and cut them off. 
DAKO: They had a ray gun. I saw it. 
TOR: Well, thats no reason to sound downhearted. We were hoping they would. 
DAKO: Well, thats all very well but how do we know theyre friendly? They might shoot us on sight. 
TOR: Well, well have to try and make contact before we show ourselves. 
SITA: How? 
TOR: Well, well catch either the old man or the girl. We can explain and let them introduce us to the others. 
SITA: Its a good idea. 
TOR: Look, quick, theyve gone to the right. Lets get them. 
(Further on still, the Doctor stops to peer at some items on stands near a door) 
IAN: All clear. 
VICKI: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Yes, yes, all right, child. 
(Vicki goes on, and the Doctor gets pulled through the door)

[Room]

(The Doctor is lying on the floor) 
DAKO: Youve killed him, Sita. 
SITA: I couldnt have, I hardly touched him. He must have fainted. 
TOR: Shut up, both of you. Theres no time for arguments. 
(We see that the Doctor's faking it) 
TOR: Stay here and watch him, Dako, in case he recovers. 
DAKO: Me? Where are you going? 
TOR: To try and find something to bring him around. Well, dont worry, we wont be long. Come on, Sita.

[Museum]

BARBARA: Well, he was following us. 
IAN: I know that, but where did he stop? Well, surely one or other of you saw or heard something? 
BARBARA: Oh, come on, Ian. You werent that far in front. 
IAN: Barbara, I am not blaming you. 
BARBARA: Well then, stop getting irritable. 
IAN: I am not irritable! I. Oh, Im sorry. Of course Im irritable. I just wish hed stay with us for once, thats all. 
BARBARA: He was looking in one of the cases. I suppose we could have left him behind. 
VICKI: I bet hes been captured. 
IAN: Captured. 
BARBARA: By whom? 
VICKI: I dont know. Those people we saw, I suppose. 
BARBARA: Oh, Vicki, youre just letting your imagination run away with you. 
IAN: There were four of us in those cases, not one. 
BARBARA: Well, what do we do now? Which is the way into those cases? Staying here, going back, or still trying to find our way out? 
IAN: Oh, Barbara, asking a lot of questions is not going to change our future. 
BARBARA: Well, if we dont find a few answers, we wont have a future. 
IAN: All right, all right, I agree weve got to do something. I say we go on. 
BARBARA: All right. 
VICKI: Oh, good. That way I think.

[Room]

(Tor and Sita return with a glass of water to find Dako bound and gagged) 
TOR: Well, what happened, Dako? 
DAKO: I dont know. I turned my back for a second, the next thing I 
TOR: Well, was it the old man? 
DAKO: I dont know. 
SITA: Did he go outside? 
DAKO: I keep telling you. I didnt see anything. One minute was silence and the next minute a whirlwind hit me. 
TOR: He must have gone to join the others. Well have to see if we can find him. 
SITA: Dont forget theyre still armed. 
TOR: Oh, well have to take our chance this time, otherwise the Moroks will get them first. Come on. 
DOCTOR: (inside the Dalek.) I fooled them all! I am the master!

[Museum]

(The Doctor comes out of the Dalek room still chuckling, and is promptly captured by two Morok guards)

[Museum Exhibit room]

BARBARA: Its no good Ian, I cant go on. We passed this thing ages ago. Were just going round and round in circles. 
VICKI: How long have we been in here? 
IAN: Oh, it doesnt matter how long. Theres only one thing thats certain. Were getting nearer and nearer to those cases. The Minotaur. 
VICKI: Where? 
IAN: The Minotaur! 
(Ian pulls Barbara's cardigan off her) 
BARBARA: Ian, what are you doing? 
IAN: Dont you two remember your mythology? When Theseus went into the labyrinth, he took with him a ball of thread so that he could use it to retrace his steps. 
BARBARA: Yes, but Ian, we havent just arrived. Weve been here for hours. 
IAN: That doesnt matter. From now on we wont go round and round in circles. Here Vicki, hold it. Come on. 
(Ian starts tugging at Barbara's cardigan) 
BARBARA: Well, you might ask. I mean, thats a good cardigan. 
IAN: Oh, er, sorry. Well, may we? 
BARBARA: Yes, yes, I suppose so. 
VICKI: Well leave a trail of thread, you see? But Ian, Ian, if anyone sees it, theyll be able to follow it and catch us. 
IAN: Oh, well get caught anyway if we dont get out of here soon. Dont worry about that. Lets get this 
VICKI: I suppose so. 
IAN: How do you undo this? 
BARBARA: Oh, give it to me. Do you have a penknife? 
IAN: Oh, penknife. Yes, there we are. 
(And Barbara carefully unpicks the finish of the knitting) 
IAN: Ah, yes.

[Cell]

(The Doctor explores the blank wall of the room then sits in a perspex chair. A metal band comes around his middle, trapping him.)

[Museum]

(The Xerons have found the thread) 
SITA: Whats this? 
TOR: Theyre leaving a trail. 
SITA: Why? 
TOR: Well, they must have missed the old man. Yes, this was put here for him to follow them. 
DAKO: No, I dont think so. Theyd have come back and looked for him. 
TOR: Well, whatever the reason, its a trail, and trails are meant to be followed. This way.

[Cell]

(a wall slides back to reveal Lobos behind a table) 
LOBOS: Welcome to Xeros, a planet in the Morok empire. What is your name? 
(The Doctor stays silent) 
LOBOS: Very well. Mine is Lobos. I am the governor of this planet. 
DOCTOR: Curator of a Museum is a better title. 
LOBOS: Ah, so now you choose to speak. Good. Yes, Xeros is a museum. A lasting memorial to the achievements of the Morok civilisation. 
DOCTOR: Really? Well, from my observation it seems to arouse very little interest. 
LOBOS: People tire of their heritage. Three hundred mimmians ago, sightseers filled this planet, marvelling at what they saw. Today, the occasional spaceship from Morok calls. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps if you reduced the price of admission? 
LOBOS: You have a sense of humour too. Unfortunately, that is not the reason. Our civilisation rests on its laurels. Galactic conquests are a thing of the past. Life, it is now said, is purely a thing to enjoy. 
DOCTOR: Decline and fall of the Roman empire. Oh yes, its happened before, yes. In many galaxies far beyond your reach. 
LOBOS: Why do you come here? 
DOCTOR: Exploration. 
LOBOS: Oh? Then you are a scientist like myself. It makes a change to have someone intelligent and enquiring to talk to. 
DOCTOR: Im charmed. 
LOBOS: Where have you come from? 
DOCTOR: Why? 
LOBOS: You dont want to answer. Very well, Ill try another. Where are your companions? We can get all the information we require without the need to resort to brute force. Of course, your cooperation would have made things easier, but it isnt essential. I will repeat the question. Where are your companions? 
(Lobos looks at a small monitor on his desk then opens the intercom.) 
LOBOS: Commander B division? 
COMMANDER [OC]: B Division. Commander here, sir. 
LOBOS: Proceed immediately to corridor 417. Detain three humans. One man, one woman and a young girl. 
COMMANDER [OC]: Message received and understood. It will be dealt with immediately. 
(Lobos turns the monitor so the Doctor can see it) 
LOBOS: A simple matter of thought selection. By asking a question, I plant an image in your mind. No matter what you say, as long as youre seated in that chair, I will see your mental pictures reflected. You see, it is quite useless for you to lie to me. Now shall we return to the questioning? How did you get here? 
(a penny-farthing bicycle)

[Museum]

IAN: The end, Im afraid. 
BARBARA: It didnt work, did it? 
IAN: Oh, I dont know. We didnt go round and round in circles, we didnt back-track. 
VICKI: If only they had exit signs like they do in ordinary museums. 
BARBARA: Well, I suppose well be stuck here until. May be the Doctors wrong and you cant change the future. 
VICKI: Oh, dont say that, Barbara. I cant bear to think of such an awful thing happening. 
BARBARA: Well, I cant bear to think of it either, but we cant 
IAN: It didnt work, eh? You come with me. 
(Ian proudly opens a pair of doors and - ) 
VICKI: The Tardis! Theyve got the Tardis!

[Cell]

DOCTOR: Well? No more questions? 
LOBOS: Where have you come from?! 
DOCTOR: If you take a look into your screen, perhaps you will find that out? 
(walruses swimming) 
LOBOS: What are these creatures? 
DOCTOR: Just some old friends of mine. 
LOBOS: But these are amphibious creatures. You are not an amphibian. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Im not, am I? 
(the Doctor dressed in Edwardian bathing costume and straw boater) 
LOBOS: Yes? 
COMMANDER [OC]: Commander B division. No fugitive aliens in corridor 417. 
LOBOS: You fools, you let them escape. All available divisions. Priority search. These aliens must be found at once. Maximum security. 
DOCTOR: Dont blame your men. I think my friends most probably left the area long before you put questions to me. I imagined them still there, of course, because that was the last place I saw them. So you see, your little toy isnt infallible, is it? 
LOBOS: So you see fit to joke with me, eh? Well, let us give you something to joke about, shall we? You are of no further use to me and would make a perfect specimen for our museums. Yes, Doctor, I see you take my meaning. Guards. Take him to the preparation room.

  Episode Three - The Search

[Outside the Museum]

(Two Moroks are guarding the Tardis with four Xerons looking at it) 
GUARD: Leave it alone.

[Museum corridor]

(Looking through slightly open doors) 
IAN: It didnt take them long to find it. 
BARBARA: Well, I hope they dont do any damage. 
IAN: Well, theres nothing they can do unless they get inside. 
VICKI: Are they bringing it in here? 
IAN: No, it doesnt look like it. Take a look for yourself, Vicki. Well, what do we do now? Find the Doctor, I suppose. Im afraid Im no great expert when it comes to changing the future. 
VICKI: I think one of us should keep watch on the Tardis. If we want to leave here in a hurry we dont want to waste time looking for it. 
BARBARA: Well, we know where its going, Vicki, weve already seen it. 
VICKI: Well if it gets there, we neednt bother. We wont have changed whats going to happen in the future. 
IAN: Oh, this whole thing is becoming a nightmare. 
BARBARA: Its been a nightmare ever since we saw those cases. But all we do is stand around saying this whole thing is a nightmare. Why dont we do something? 
IAN: Choice is only possible when you know all the facts. Dont you realise? We know nothing about this place. 
BARBARA: Shh! Listen!

[Outside the Museum]

COMMANDER: Keep clear! Move! Move! 
(The Xerons leave) 
COMMANDER: Is there no way in? 
GUARD: No, Commander. 
COMMANDER: Thats all I need. You know what Lobos will say about that, soldier. He will blame me. Everything that goes wrong on this wretched planet is my fault. Think yourselves lucky that you have me between you and our illustrious Governor. A scapegoat, and for what? For this rank and a meagre pittance of extra pay. Oh, whats the use. 
LOBOS: A strange looking craft. It must be very cramped and uncomfortable for four travellers inside at one time. 
COMMANDER: Yes. 
LOBOS: This door is locked. 
COMMANDER: We could not gain entry, sir. 
LOBOS: Didnt they leave you the key? Force it open, you fool! 
COMMANDER: Why was not the cutting equipment bought to me? I asked you to bring it several times, didnt I, soldier? Now dont you give me any of your feeble excuses. I will deal with you later. Get it! Incompetent fools. Have any of the aliens been caught, sir? 
LOBOS: One has.

[Museum]

LOBOS [OC]: Three are still at large. 
IAN: Did you hear that? 
BARBARA: Yes. Shh!

[Outside the Museum]

COMMANDER: They could be in a thousand places. 
LOBOS: Then I expect a thousand places to be searched. When this is over, discipline will be tightened. The army heres gone soft. Im supposed to have at my command trained soldiers, not a feeble bunch of half witted amateurs.

[Museum]

BARBARA: Theyve stopped talking. 
VICKI: Maybe theyve gone. 
GUARD: Stay as you are! You! You with the gun - bring it to me! Now careful. 
(Vicki hands over the weapon) 
GUARD: Dont move! 
(Ian steps forward) 
BARBARA: Dont! Hell fire that thing. 
IAN: Well? Wouldnt that change the shape of things to come? 
BARBARA: Well, it would for you. Youd be dead. 
IAN: They cant kill us. Were going to end up in those cases. 
BARBARA: Not necessarily. Oh, you can change the future so that we dont end up in those cases, but if were all dead, whats the point? 
IAN: But that means we cant fight against anybody. We dont know what were doing. 
VICKI: Weve just lost the Doctor. Has that already changed the future? 
BARBARA: We dont know Vicki. Maybe thats the way it happened. Weve no reason to suppose that we all ended up in the cases at exactly the same time. 
VICKI: So we could be doing exactly what were supposed to do. 
IAN: Ive had enough of this. Now listen, were going to deal with him, and then were going after the Doctor, whether were supposed to or not. 
GUARD: Thats enough talking. Come on, move out slowly. 
BARBARA: Be careful. 
IAN: Dont worry. Im going to try something. 
GUARD: I said, move out. 
(Ian moves slowly towards the guard) 
IAN: Yes, we heard you the first time, but we dont feel like moving, do we? 
VICKI: No, definitely not. 
BARBARA: Ian, dont go too far. 
IAN: Now, what were you orders? To capture us? To bring us in? 
GUARD: Yes, get back. Back. 
IAN: There was nothing about killing us, was there? Well, was there? Well, answer me? 
GUARD: No. No, no, there wasnt. 
IAN: Well, think what your superiors are going to say. Theyre going to ask, did you bring in the aliens? No, youre going to reply, I went out and shot them all. 
(Ian tackles the guard) 
IAN: Now, run, both of you. 
VICKI: Ian! Come on!

[Outside the Museum]

LOBOS: Open those doors! Open them!

[Museum]

IAN: Vicki! 
(Vicki and Barbara scatter) 
LOBOS: Get after those women! 
COMMANDER: Guards! With me! 
LOBOS: Take him to my office. Wait for me there. Guards! Guards!

[Outside the Museum]

(After a big struggle, Ian knocks out the two guards and runs off)

[Storeroom]

BARBARA: Vicki! 
(There's a spooky pair of dummies in there. A guard comes in and Barbara hides behind a cupboard) 
COMMANDER [OC]: One of them came this way! 
GUARD: No, sir. 
COMMANDER: Come, come. 
(Barbara discovers that the guard has locked the door behind him)

[Museum]

(Vicki is abducted by the Xerons)

[Room]

VICKI: Let me go! Let go of me! 
TOR: Quiet, they'll hear. Look, youve got to trust us! 
VICKI: Why should I? 
TOR: We hate the Moroks. We want to see them dead. Well, you can see were nothing like them. 
VICKI: Who are you? 
TOR: Well, well explain everything later. First of all, we must find your companions. 
VICKI: It was you who took the Doctor, like you took me. The old man who was with us. 
TOR: Well, yes, but. We did but he fooled us. Then the Moroks caught him. Oh, we didnt hand him over to them if thats what youre thinking. Now where are the others? 
VICKI: I think they caught Ian. 
TOR: The man? What of the woman? 
VICKI: We ran so quickly, we went in opposite directions. I couldnt turn back when I realised because the guards were already behind me. 
TOR: She must be making for the storerooms. Well have to wait at the headquarters. Dako? 
DAKO: Yes? 
TOR: Go and see if you can find her and bring her there. Whats her name? 
VICKI: Barbara. 
TOR: Go quickly! 
(Dako leaves)

[Outside the Museum]

LOBOS: You fools. You let them escape. 
GUARD: Yes sir. 
LOBOS: Well there are other ways of getting them out. Withdraw our men from this building. Have all exits guarded and have this rest search the area for the one these fools allowed to escape. 
GUARD: Sir. 
(Guard 1 leaves) 
LOBOS: You remain here. 
(Lobos leaves) 
(Ian comes from behind the Tardis and throws a stone) 
GUARD 2: Whos there? 
(Ian jumps him from behind and disarms him) 
GUARD 2: No, no, no, dont kill me! No! 
IAN: That depends on you. I want the answers to some questions. 
GUARD 2: If I can help you, I will. I promise. 
IAN: A friend of mine, an old man. Hes been captured. Now whats happened to him? 
GUARD 2: I dont know. I dont know. 
IAN: Is he dead? 
GUARD 2: No! No! 
IAN: Where is he? 
GUARD 2: They took him to the preparation room, but its nothing to do with me. Im just a simple soldier. 
IAN: What happens there? I said, what happens there? 
GUARD 2: Hell be got ready for the Museum. But you cant help him. Once the process starts 
IAN: What process? 
GUARD 2: Well, its a kind of embalming. 
IAN: How longs it take? 
GUARD 2: Well, several hours, but 
IAN: Take me there. 
GUARD 2: Well, youll be killed. 
IAN: Take me! 
GUARD 2: Well both be killed!

[Governor's office]

LOBOS: A directive from Morok. They think we made a mistake in allowing the Xeron youth to live. They are almost men and dangerous. These aliens, theyve made fools of us! (into the intercom) Building 6-2? The ventilation is standard? 
GUARD [OC]: Yes sir. 
LOBOS: Good, it wont take the guards long to withdraw. In one hour the air is to be replaced with Zaphra gas, is that clear? 
GUARD [OC]: Perfectly. 
LOBOS: Then see that my order is carried out. 
COMMANDER: Zaphra gas. 
LOBOS: It is very effective. If the two women do not leave the building and surrender to the guards, the gas will eventually paralyse them.

[Storeroom]

(Barbara gives up trying to jemmy the door with a piece of wood, and has been dozing when a figure enters. She raises a piece of wood) 
DAKO: Barbara? Are you in here? 
BARBARA: Who are you? How do you know my name?

[Outside the Museum]

TOR: Theres no guard here. Hurry! 
VICKI: Cant we wait for Barbara? 
TOR: Oh no, its too dangerous. Dako will find her and bring her to the hideout. 
SITA: Now, quickly!

[Storeroom]

DAKO: Tor and Sita have taken Vicki to our headquarters. You must believe me. We are your friends. 
BARBARA: Why should you be? 
DAKO: Were Xerons. This is our planet. 
BARBARA: And the others? The ones in uniform? 
DAKO: Moroks. They've changed our planet into a Museum. A record of their wars. But soon we shall rise against them and drive them from Xeros. 
BARBARA: Moroks? Well, where did they come from? 
DAKO: Their planet is three light years away. They invaded us without warning. Xeros was a place of peace and knowledge and the wisdom of our elders made us free from want. 
BARBARA: Well, why didnt you fight back? 
DAKO: Their weapons were far superior to ours. We had planned for peace and they for war. Now I want you to come with me. 
BARBARA: Well, can you get us out of here? 
DAKO: There are many guards but Ill find a way. Come on. 
(gas starts pouring in) 
BARBARA: Look! 
DAKO: Theyve set the museum on fire! 
BARBARA: That isnt smoke, its gas. Put something over your mouth.

[Xeron hideout]

(sharing a meal) 
VICKI: So then what happened, after the Moroks had captured the planet? 
TOR: They destroyed everything, even our people. Only the children were spared, to work. 
VICKI: How horrible. 
TOR: We are a slave race. When we grow older we are taken to other planets. Sita, Dako and myself were due to go. That is why we hide here and plan. 
SITA: But although we have sworn to drive the Moroks from Xeros, it will not be easy. The life they impose on us makes organisation difficult. 
VICKI: But there dont seem to be many Moroks. Surely you must outnumber them? 
TOR: It is unpleasant to admit but our opposition is weak and unarmed. Well, a very small army can easily keep control. 
VICKI: But youre supposed to be planning a revolution! 
TOR: Why did you and your friends comes to Xeros? 
VICKI: We. It was an accident. 
TOR: Of course. No one would come to Xeros from choice. The Moroks reputation is universal. 
SITA: Its late. Im sure Dako and your friend Barbara, have been captured. 
TOR: Well, they need time to dodge the guards. 
SITA: All this time? Wed be fooling ourselves to believe otherwise. 
VICKI: Well, you cant just accept it. Weve got to help them. Well, sitting here planning and dreaming of a revolution isnt going to win your planet back. 
SITA: We do all we can. 
VICKI: By making a nuisance of yourselves, thats all it is. 
TOR: What can we do without weapons? 
VICKI: Nothing. We must get some. 
SITA: Ha! Now whos dreaming? 
VICKI: The Moroks are armed. 
SITA: So we take them from the Moroks. 
VICKI: Why not? That is revolution. 
TOR: Vicki, we have tried. Occasionally we have overpowered a guard and taken his ray gun. But what can one gun do against even a small army? 
SITA: And when we do that they take hostages until the gun is returned. 
VICKI: Where are the guns kept? 
TOR: Well, at the armoury. 
VICKI: If you had guns, lots of them, could you organise your friends? Distribute the arms and really wage a war? 
TOR: Of course. That is where we are strong, in our planning. 
SITA: But the armoury is out of our reach. 
VICKI: Dont you know where it is? 
TOR: Oh, we know, but its key is something that we could never obtain. 
VICKI: Oh, I dont understand. 
TOR: The armaments are kept behind locked doors. An impregnable safe. 
VICKI: What kind of lock does it have? 
TOR: An electronic brain programmed to ask questions. The answers given open the door. But they only open to the truth. 
VICKI: A sort of lie detector. If I could see it, maybe I could. Well, Id just like to see it. 
TOR: We can take you. 
SITA: But why are you so interested in this, Vicki? Why do you want this revolution so much? 
VICKI: Ive as many reasons as you, perhaps more, for wanting to see the future changed. Perhaps Ill explain later but I think we should go now.

[Morok headquarters]

IAN: Whats wrong? 
GUARD 2: This is the building. 
IAN: Well, take me in. 
GUARD 2: It would be better to wait. Its a busy time of day. Later on there wont be so many guards on duty. Youll stand a better chance. 
IAN: Theres someone coming. Now find out what happened to the others, and remember, Im here. 
(Ian conceals himself) 
COMMANDER: Soldier! What are you doing here, soldier? Why have you left your post? 
GUARD 2: The governor sent for me. I am to report to him. 
COMMANDER: You didnt leave it unguarded, did you? 
GUARD 2: The replacement hadnt arrived. But the Governors orders. He said immediately. 
COMMANDER: Then why are you waiting? I will attend to your replacement. 
GUARD 2: Sir? 
COMMANDER: What is it now, soldier? 
GUARD 2: Have the aliens been recaptured? 
COMMANDER: Not yet, but the Zaphra gas will soon drive them from their hiding place. 
(The Commander leaves) 
IAN: You did well. Well take your advice and wait a while. Over there.

[Armoury]

(Tor grabs the guard and Sita knocks him out.) 
TOR: Well, this is the armoury, Vicki. 
VICKI: These must be the light beams. 
SITA: Yes. 
(Vicki examines the computers) 
SITA: Can you do anything? Do you know how it works? 
VICKI: It must work to a standard pattern. Break the light beam. 
TOR: But the questions will start. 
VICKI: Yes, I know. 
COMPUTER: Do you understand that all questions are to be fully answered? 
SITA: Yes. 
COMPUTER: What is your rank? 
SITA: I have no rank. 
TOR: You see Vicki? Not only does the reply have to be true, it has to be the correct answer as well. 
VICKI: Yes. Sita, break the light beam again but this time dont answer. Just let the questions run right through. 
COMPUTER: Do you understand that all questions are to be fully answered? What is your rank? What is your name? Do you have the Governor's permission to approach? Have you a requisition signed by the Governor? What is its reference number? 
TOR: Withdrawal requisition numbers are fed in from headquarters. It has to tally with the number given. Theres no chance, Vicki. 
COMPUTER: Which unit are you attached to? 
VICKI: Isnt there? I wouldnt give in as easily as that. 
COMPUTER: For what purpose are the arms needed? 
VICKI: Look, now this is where the questions are recorded. 
COMPUTER: Has the guard on duty examined your identification papers? 
VICKI: Help me get the front off. 
COMPUTER: What is the current password?

[Governor's office]

LOBOS: Are the aliens still in the building? 
GUARD [OC]: Yes sir. We have seen no movement. 
LOBOS: Very well. Keep the men alerted. Theyll soon be coming out.

[Museum]

BARBARA: Were almost there, Dako. 
(Dako collapses) 
BARBARA: Dako, come on. Come on. 
(Barbara collapses)

[Armoury]

TOR: Have you done it? 
VICKI: Im not sure. I think so. 
TOR: Well, the door hasnt opened. 
VICKI: Youve got to answer the questions yet. 
TOR: Well then youve failed. The lock reacts only to the truth. 
VICKI: And it still does, Tor. Youll see. 
COMPUTER: What is your name? 
VICKI: Vicki. 
COMPUTER: For what purpose are the arms needed? 
VICKI: Revolution. 
(and the door opens) 
TOR: Well done, Vicki! 
VICKI: I fixed it so that I only had to answer the truth. I didnt have to give the correct reply. 
SITA: Theres everything we need here and more. Well be able to arm everybody. 
TOR: Oh good! Get as many as you can carry and give them to Sham for distribution. Ill give mine to the Tolma Corrin and bring them back here for more. 
VICKI: I wonder if this will keep us out of the cases.

[Governor's office]

LOBOS: Come in. 
(Ian and Guard 2 enter) 
LOBOS: Well. At last. You aliens have caused me enough trouble. I shall see that you pay for it. 
(Ian produces the gun) 
LOBOS: Youll be a fool if you kill me. You will achieve nothing. 
IAN: Possibly, but it might be enjoyable. 
LOBOS: What do you want? 
IAN: Take me to the Doctor. The old man you captured. 
LOBOS: And if I refuse? 
IAN: I dont think youll be that stupid. 
LOBOS: Youll kill me anyway. 
IAN: Youre wasting time. 
LOBOS: Am I? It is too late for you to help him. He has already passed into the second stage of preparation. 
IAN: And what does that mean? 
LOBOS: He is beyond your help. 
IAN: Come on! Take me to him! Move! Hurry! 
LOBOS: Hurrying wont help your friend, the Doctor. 
IAN: Is he in there? 
LOBOS: Yes. 
IAN: Open the door. 
(The guard does so) 
IAN: Now get in, both of you.

[Preparation room]

IAN: Doctor!

Episode Four - The Final Phase

[Preparation room]

(The Doctor is propped upright against a board, unconscious. He has tubes going from him to a dome-shaped device in the room.) 
IAN: What have you done to him? 
LOBOS: I dont think you would appreciate the technical difficulties. 
IAN: Just tell me what youve done. 
LOBOS: He has completed the second stage of preparation. Hes as good as dead. 
IAN: If you want to save yourself, youd better bring him back to life. 
LOBOS: Impossible. 
IAN: But your only hope is to try. 
LOBOS: No one has ever attempted to reverse the process. 
IAN: Theres a first time for everything, now get moving! 
(Ian spots and removes Lobos' weapon) 
IAN: And remember, I shall be watching you very carefully, so dont try any tricks. 
LOBOS: There are no tricks in science, only facts. 
(Lobos starts flicking switches) 
IAN: How long is this going to take? 
LOBOS: How can I say? This has never been done before. Perhaps he never will recover.

[Xeron hideout]

(Sita is handing out guns to the motley bunch of young rebels) 
SITA: Thats nearly the lot. 
TOR: Right, move along. Hurry up. 
VICKI: Tor? 
TOR: Just a minute, Vicki. Right, now you know the main objective. The Morok barracks. Most of our force is already on the way there. But we must surprise them. If they mobilise, we shall fail. 
SITA: Come on, take a ray gun. 
VICKI: Tor, will everybody be going to the barracks? 
TOR: Well, we need every man and woman we can muster, Vicki. Why? 
VICKI: Well if its all the same to you, Im going back to the museum. 
TOR: The museum? 
VICKI: Barbara may still be there. Ive got to find her, Tor, and my other friends. 
TOR: Look, after weve finished here, you can 
VICKI: Now! It may be too late then. 
TOR: I wont let you go. 
VICKI: I wont let you stop me. 
TOR: But if youre captured? 
VICKI: The Moroks dont know of the revolt. Im not likely to tell them. 
TOR: Well you wont have to, The gun will give us away. Theyll check the armoury. 
(she gives the gun to him) 
VICKI: Im still going. Look, Tor, Ive got to find them and tell them whats going on. Theres no knowing what theyll do otherwise. If I am captured, Ill just have to hope that youre successful and you find me in time. I know it sounds silly but whatever I do may be wrong. Ive got to find them. 
TOR: Vicki. 
VICKI: Yes? 
TOR: Wait a moment. Sita? Go with Vicki to the Museum. Ill join you later. 
SITA: Yes, but 
TOR: Dont argue, Sita. (he gives Vicki the gun back) Do what she tells you. 
VICKI: Come on, Sita.

[Outside the Museum]

(the cutting equipment has arrived) 
COMMANDER: Soldier! Leave that. Where is the relief guard for this entrance? 
GUARD: There was no one here when we arrived, sir. 
COMMANDER: You, take over the watch. 
GUARD: Sir! 
COMMANDER: You two come with me. Ill get to the bottom of this.

[Museum]

(Barbara gets up in the gas-filled corridor) 
BARBARA: Dako! Dako! Come on! 
(She helps him up and puts a handkerchief over his mouth.) 
BARBARA: Here.

[Preparation room]

IAN: Well, whats happening? 
LOBOS: His temperature is returning to normal. 
IAN: Good. Cant you speed things up a bit? 
LOBOS: After a temperature of several hundred degrees below freezing, it is a complicated process. You will have to be patient. 
(The machine stops making a noise) 
LOBOS: Body temperature has now been reached. 
(Ian feels the Doctor's forehead) 
LOBOS: Well? 
IAN: Yes. Hes getting warmer. 
LOBOS: Good. We shant have long to wait. 
DOCTOR: Ahh! 
IAN: Get back! 
DOCTOR: (waking and groaning) Support me, dear boy. Support me over there and sit me down. 
(The Doctor sits, groaning) 
IAN: How are you feeling? 
DOCTOR: I shall be all right in a minute. Its a bad attack of rheumatism. Yes, it always happens to me when Im cold. 
IAN: Youve been cold all right, Doctor, I can tell you that. 
DOCTOR: Yes, unfortunately, Im not used to being subjected to such low temperatures. 
LOBOS: (to guard) When I give you the word, you rush him. 
IAN: No, well, wed better bring the circulation back. 
LOBOS: Thats an order. 
DOCTOR: Its all right, dear boy. Its not, its not the circulation freeze. 
IAN: Eh? 
DOCTOR: Yes, dont fuss. Now dont do that. 
LOBOS: Now! 
(But the guard gets one of the guns jabbed into his chest) 
DOCTOR: My dear Governor, my dear Lobos, I dont think your soldiers have really got their heart in their job, have they? Thank you for getting me out of this little predicament. Although, I would have been better pleased had you done it more voluntary. 
IAN: Yes, his conscience did need reminding. 
DOCTOR: Yes. I know, I know. 
IAN: What do you mean you know? Surely you were 
DOCTOR: Dead? Not at all, my boy. Not at all. I was merely, let me say, frozen stiff? 
IAN: You mean you knew everything that was happening? 
DOCTOR: Exactly! My brain was working with the speed of a mechanical computer. I was asking myself questions and the answers were arriving with remarkable alacrity. Yes, yes. I must confess, I didnt enjoy the refrigeration, hence this attack of rheumatism. But thanks to you, my dear boy, I am now de-iced and I think Im quite capable of facing up to the climate once more. 
LOBOS: I wouldnt be too sure of that, Doctor. Of course, I have no proof, but your brain could very easily have been affected. 
DOCTOR: The best thing for you, Governor Lobos, is to put you in there. Then you will have all the proof you needed. But you think yourself lucky. My conscience wont allow me to do that. Its a pity, isnt it? Its a pity!

[Governor's office]

(The Commander and the two guards enter the office and overhear the conversation in the Preparation room) 
IAN [OC]: Well Doctor, I think the next thing to do is find Barbara and Vicki, eh? 
DOCTOR [OC]: Im not so sure of that, my dear boy. Where did you say youd left them? 
IAN [OC]: In the Museum. 
DOCTOR [OC]: And the Tardis? 
IAN [OC]: Well, that was outside the Museum building. 
DOCTOR: Hmm. I see, I see.

[Preparation room]

IAN: Whats the problem? Surely weve changed the future by now? 
DOCTOR: Yes, and Im not sure of that either, Chesterton. Have we? Have we? Or are we doing what were allegedly intended to do? Now, what do you think? 
IAN: Well, I got you out of that thing, I 
DOCTOR: Yes, thats true.

[Governor's office]

DOCTOR: Thats true, but Im sure the Governor here would be delighted if we were both put back in there.

[Preparation room]

(The Commander and guards sneak up behind the Doctor and Ian) 
DOCTOR: Am I correct, sir? 
(A guard knocks Ian out. The Doctor turns and sees a gun pointed at him) 
LOBOS: Yes, Doctor. You are quite correct. And it would appear that I shall have my wish.

[Museum]

BARBARA: Theres only a few more feet, Dako. 
DAKO: (coughing) Therell be guards out there, Barbara. Waiting for us. 
BARBARA: Youll stand a better chance outside. 
DAKO: A chance of what?

[Outside the Museum]

(The guard spots them through the crack in the main doors, and draws his weapon)

[Governor's office]

COMMANDER: I met this soldier on his way here, asked him what he was doing. He said reporting to you on your orders. 
GUARD: I was a prisoner of one of the aliens, sir. He had a gun. 
LOBOS: Which he took from you. 
GUARD: Yes, sir. 
COMMANDER: I posted a relief guard and then came back here to see what was happening. 
LOBOS: You did well, Commander. Have this man placed under close arrest. 
(The intercom buzzes) 
LOBOS: Yes? 
GUARD [OC]: Relief guard, exit 4-1-7. The aliens are just about to leave the museum. 
LOBOS: Good. Detain them there. Ill send extra men. 
GUARD [OC]: Yes sir. 
LOBOS: Well, it would appear that this little diversion will soon be over, Commander. 
(Flicks his intercom switches) 
LOBOS: Strange, no reply from the barracks. Well, it seems that a faulty connection has given our friend here another chance. Go with the Commander. When youve got them, bring the aliens to me. 
COMMANDER: Yes sir.

[Preparation room]

LOBOS: Ive just a word about your friends. Youll all be together again soon. Perhaps for centuries?

[Outside the Museum]

(Barbara and Dako tumble out of the smoke-filled Museum) 
GUARD: Halt! Halt! Stay as you are. Over to the wall. Over! 
DAKO: Sorry, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Its all right. Wasnt your fault. 
GUARD: No talking. Hands on your heads. Up! Up! 
SITA: Soldier! 
(Sita shoots the guard) 
BARBARA: Vicki! 
VICKI: Barbara! Are you all right? You look terrible. 
BARBARA: No, Im fine. 
DAKO: Sita! Where did you come from? And guns! 
SITA: Yes, the revolution's finally started. We broke into the armoury. Tor is leading an attack on the Morok barracks. 
DAKO: Well, why arent you there? 
SITA: We came for you. 
VICKI: Is Ian still inside? 
BARBARA: Well, I dont see how he could be. I think he must have been captured by the guards. 
VICKI: Taken to wherever the Doctor is, I suppose. Oh, Barbara, weve got to find them. Weve got a chance now. 
BARBARA: Why? Whats happened? 
VICKI: Everythings going to be all right, I know it is. When the revolution succeeds, Tor and the Xerons are going to destroy this Museum and all the exhibits. Well, we cant be put in a museum that doesnt exist any more, can we? 
SITA: Dako and myself are going to try and see if we can find Tor. Are you coming? 
VICKI: No, I dont think so, are we, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Well, we must find out where Ian and the Doctor were taken. And if that means just wandering around the exhibition aimlessly, well, we may as well go with them, Tor. 
VICKI: Where will they be taken? 
SITA: The Governors office, I expect. First of all, anyway. 
VICKI: We dont want to go there, do we? 
COMMANDER: Possibly not, but thats where you are going. 
(The Moroks shoot Sita and Dako) 
VICKI: Sita. 
COMMANDER: (taking Vicki's gun) Where did you get this? I asked you a question. 
VICKI: I, I cant remember. 
COMMANDER: Soldier. Have their been any guerilla actions against us? 
GUARD: None recently. 
COMMANDER: Have any arms fallen into Xeron hands? 
GUARD: No, sir, not that I know of. 
COMMANDER: It seems as though our illustrious Governor is going to have more than his usual batch of questions to ask. Move.

[Governor's office]

(Lobos is still flicking intercom switches) 
COMMANDER: No answer. 
LOBOS: No. First the barracks, now the armoury. Well, the soldier will report as soon as he gets there. 
COMMANDER: Yes, sir. You dont think 
LOBOS: I dont think anything, Commander. All I know is that this gun came from the weapons store. 
COMMANDER: What is going to happen to them? 
LOBOS: In due course they will go into the museum, as planned.

[Preparation room]

(Everyone is locked in the room, and Ian is testing the door) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, Chesterton. Save your strength. Itll take much more than that to get us out of this situation. 
IAN: Well, exhibits in a forgotten museum, eh? Is that how were all going to end up? Not with this apparatus. 
(Ian rips a piece of the dome contraption and stamps on it) 
DOCTOR: Well, my boy, youd hardly call me a pessimist, but I think its most unlikely that that is the only contraption of its kind. 
BARBARA: Well, you cant blame Ian for letting off steam, Doctor. Oh, I wish Id had thought of it. Id have smashed the whole thing too. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I would have done the same thing. 
VICKI: But we must have changed the future! We just must have done! 
BARBARA: Must we Vicki? Or were all the things that happened planned out for us? Four separate journeys. Four choices, that led all the time, closer to here. Maybe it could have changed things if I hadnt left that Museum. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and perhaps I shouldnt have got myself captured. 
IAN: Well, if your all joining in, I suppose I. Oh, whats the use. 
VICKI: It hasnt happened yet, you know. 
DOCTOR: Yes, Vickis quite right. Quite right. 
IAN: Its only a matter of time, isnt it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, its not necessarily, my boy. 
BARBARA: But Doctor, what can we do now to 
DOCTOR: My dear Barbara, you must try and remember, the short time weve been on this planet, weve met people, spoken to them and who knows, we might have even influenced them. 
VICKI: Thats what I was trying to say, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I knew you were, child, yes. Yes, I knew you were. 
IAN: You mean we dont necessarily have to change our own future. It could be changed for us. 
DOCTOR: Quite so, yes, quite so, my boy. 
VICKI: Like the revolution.

[Outside the Museum]

(Guards see Sita and Dako lying on the ground by the open Museum door) 
GUARD: To headquarters, quickly! Look out! 
(But they're ambushed by Tor and his men. Another guard tries to jump Tor but gets shaken off and shot)

[Museum]

(Two Xerons chase a Morok inside and shoot him)

[Outside the Museum]

TOR: Dako, Dako, its Tor. 
DAKO: (waking.) Tor. The barracks, did you? 
TOR: Destroyed. The Moroks are on the run. And Vicki. Do you know what happened? 
DAKO: She found her friends, then the Moroks came. 
TOR: They took them? 
DAKO: Yes. 
TOR: Well, where to, Dako? Where did they take them? 
DAKO: Im not sure. The Governors office, I think. 
TOR: Stay with him. The rest of you, come with me.

[Governor's office]

LOBOS: Yes. Armoury? 
GUARD [OC]: Yes, sir? 
LOBOS: Whats happening? 
GUARD [OC]: Weve been attacked. The weapons have gone. 
LOBOS: What? Stay there. Ill send extra men. 
GUARD [OC]: No, the barracks have been wiped out. The Xerons have got Argh! 
LOBOS: Hello? Hello? This is Governor Lobos. Well still get away. Ive got a ship standing by at the launching port. 
COMMANDER: What about the aliens? 
LOBOS: All this trouble started when they arrived. Kill them. (As Lobos and the Commander start to enter the Preparation room, the Xerons arrive) 
TOR: Lobos! 
(Lobos and the Commander are shot) 
VICKI: Tor! 
TOR: Vicki! 
VICKI: Oh, marvellous! Oh, thank you! 
DOCTOR: The future doesnt look too bad after all, does it?

[Outside the Museum]

(Exhibits are being removed from the Museum. Tor is directing them like a wife moving into a new home.) 
TOR: Take that straight through. 
VICKI: Wheres that going? Wheres that going? 
TOR: Well, thats just going over there. 
VICKI: Oh. 
TOR: All this stuff. 
BARBARA: Well, it didnt take them long to dismantle the Museum, did it? 
IAN: No. Well, it must be quite a feeling, getting your own planet back. 
(The Doctor comes out of the Tardis with a tiny gizmo) 
DOCTOR: Well, there you both are. Thats it. Thats the little thing thats been giving us all this dimensional trouble. 
IAN: Just that? 
DOCTOR: You know, its a funny thing how it happened. It got stuck. I dont know whether youve gone into a room and switched on the light and had to wait for a second or two before the thing lit itself up. 
BARBARA: Yes, I have. I think most people have. 
DOCTOR: Well, this is the same kind of problem, you see. We landed on a separate time track, wandered around a bit, and until this little thing clicked itself into place, we hadnt actually arrived. 
IAN: Ah. Well, thanks very much for explaining it. 
DOCTOR: Not at all, my dear boy, anytime, anytime. 
IAN: Yes, well, do you want it back? 
DOCTOR: Yes, please, yes. I wonder if youd mind taking it in for me. Inside the ship. Thank you. I just want to fetch Vicki. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
(Ian and Barbara go into the Tardis) 
DOCTOR: There, now. 
VICKI: But, Tor, surely it doesnt all have to be destroyed. Cant you use any of it? 
TOR: Oh, we only want on Xeros what belongs to Xeros, Vicki. The rest will be broken up. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I can quite understand your sentiments, young man. But you know, you mustnt lose sight of science altogether. You might need it. 
TOR: Oh, yes, Doctor. 
IAN: Doctor, what is that extraordinary thing youve got in the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Ah, that my boy, yes. Well that I got from the Space Museum. This young man here, Tor, very kindly gave it to me as a souvenir. 
IAN: A souvenir? Ha! Couldnt you get something a little smaller? 
DOCTOR: My dear Chesterton, I dont think I have to ask your permission for what I take in my ship, and another thing, I will not have 
BARBARA: Oh no, Doctor, of course you dont. But, er, what is it? It looks terribly interesting. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, as a matter of fact, my dear, its what they call a Time and Space Visualiser. You know, I couldnt believe my eyes when I saw it in the Space Museum. And I have an idea I can get it working again. 
IAN: Yes, Doctor, but what exactly does it do? 
DOCTOR: You will see, you will see. All in good time. Now then, have you said your goodbyes? 
TOR: Yes. Thank you, Doctor. Your party made our revolution a success. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. Well now, I think we must get moving. Goodbye, young man. 
TOR: Goodbye, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye, Tor. Come along, my child. Come along. 
TOR: Goodbye, Vicki. 
VICKI: Goodbye, Tor. 
(She gives him a last affectionate look and a wave before going into the Tardis. Then it dematerialises.)

[Control room]

(On a battered, cratered planet, single-minded oversized pepperpots are monitoring the continuum) 
DALEK: Our greatest enemies have left the planet Xeros. They are once again in time and space. 
DALEK 2 [OC]: They cannot escape! Our time machine will soon follow them. They will be exterminated! Exterminated! Exterminated!

[Control room]

DALEK 1: Our greatest enemies have left the planet Xeros. They are once again in time and space. 
DALEK 2 [OC]: They cannot escape! Our time machine will soon follow them. They will be exterminated! Exterminated! Exterminated!

[Tardis]

(The Doctor is working on a large circular device with a television screen in the middle) 
DOCTOR: Don't whistle, dear, please. 
VICKI: Well, have you nearly finished, Doctor? 
(The Doctor's reply is rendered unintelligible by the screwdriver in his mouth. Vicki whistles again.) 
DOCTOR: Stop whistling! 
VICKI: Well, can I do anything to help? 
DOCTOR: (mumble) Buzz off, now.

[Tardis living area]

(Ian is reading Monsters from Outer Space) 
VICKI: What are you reading? 
(He shows her the title) 
VICKI: Is it good? 
IAN: Yes. A bit far-fetched. 
(Vicki starts reading it over his shoulder, then leans on him to see better. He moves) 
VICKI: Oh, all right.

[Women's bedroom]

VICKI: I am redundant around here. 
BARBARA: Oh, nonsense. Come and sit down and talk to me. 
VICKI: I am a useless person. 
(Vicki sits on the edge of a 'bed' which then tips her forward making her knock over whatever Barbara was using)
BARBARA: Oh, Vicki! 
VICKI: Oh, what was it? 
BARBARA: Oh, it was a dress for you.

[Tardis]

(There's a very loud, skull-penetrating noise coming from the device) 
IAN: What's the matter? What's the trouble? 
DOCTOR: Out of the way! Out of the way! 
IAN: What's the matter? 
BARBARA: Doctor! Turn it off! 
(The Doctor finds the volume control) 
BARBARA: Oh, that's better. 
IAN: Are you trying to deafen us all or something? 
DOCTOR: Deafen you? No, no, dear boy. It was an unfortunate juxtaposition of the sonic rectifier with the lineal amplifier. 
IAN: Oh, of course. I should have know. 
BARBARA: Doctor, what is this machine? 
DOCTOR: I've already told you, my dear. It's a Time and Space Visualiser. 
BARBARA: Yes, but apart from making that dreadful noise, what does it do? 
DOCTOR: It converts neutrons of light energy into electrical impulses. 
IAN: Oh, wonderful. I've always wanted one. 
DOCTOR: Do I detect a hint of sarcasm, dear boy? 
IAN: I'm sorry, Doctor, but you rattle off explanations that would have baffled Einstein and you expect Barbara and I to know what you're talking about. 
DOCTOR: Very well then, I shall quote you Ven Der Haff's law. Mass is absorbed by light, therefore light has mass and energy. 
VICKI: The energy radiated by a light neutron is equal to the energy of the mass it absorbed. 
DOCTOR: Splendid child, splendid. 
VICKI: It's quite simple. It just means that anything that ever happens, anywhere in the universe, is recorded in light neutrons. 
DOCTOR: I couldn't have put it better myself, child. 
VICKI: Doctor, you know when I left Earth? Scientists were trying to invent a machine that would convert the energy from light neutrons into electrical impulses. That meant that you could just tune in and see any event in history. 
BARBARA: Do you mean a sort of Time television? 
VICKI: Yes, like that. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's exactly what this is. 
BARBARA + VICKI: No! 
VICKI: Doctor, you're kidding! Why didn't you tell me? I could have fixed it for you instead of you fiddling about like that. 
DOCTOR: I have already fixed it, my dear. My dear Chesterton, do you mind if I distract you from your cowboys and indians? 
IAN: Oh, all right. 
DOCTOR: I want to give a little demonstration. Will you think of an event in history? 
IAN: All right, I've thought of one. 
DOCTOR: Well, first the place. 
IAN: Oh, Earth, that's easy. 
DOCTOR: Now the geographical location, date and time. 
IAN: Nineteenth of November, 1863. The place, Pennsylvania, USA. 
DOCTOR: Good! Don't go away. 
(The noise starts up again and has to be turned down) 
DOCTOR: Watch. 
(An image appears on the small screen of a bearded man speaking quite clearly and carefully in an American accent) 
LINCOLN [on monitor]: conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. 
BARBARA: Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln! 
IAN: Yes, that's what I asked for. The Gettysburg address! 
LINCOLN [on monitor]: Civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battlefield of that war. We've come to dedicate a portion of it as a final resting place for those who gave their lives that that nation might live. That is altogether fitting and proper that we should do so. But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. 
BARBARA: Doctor, can I have a go? 
VICKI: Can I? Can I? Please? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes, now, all in good time, my dear, all in good time. Now, Barbara. 
BARBARA: Yes? Now 
IAN: Did you ever see anything like it in your life? 
VICKI: No. 
IAN: Well, that was Abraham Lincoln. 
BARBARA: Quiet, you lot! 
VICKI: I know it was! 
IAN: Well, where are we? 
VICKI: What is it! 
DOCTOR: Put it in there. In the slot. Now. 
(A regal lady in a Tudor ruff is speaking) 
QUEEN [on monitor]: We are well aware of what 
IAN: It's Queen Elizabeth the first. 
DOCTOR: Shh! 
VICKI: Who's that man? 
BARBARA: Oh, wait and see.

[Palace]

(A man is hiding behind a tapestry) 
SHAKESPEARE: Is the Queen angry, sire? It was only a jest. 
BACON: She has graciously granted you an audience. 
SHAKESPEARE: Oh. (goes forward and kneels) Oh, your Majesty! 
QUEEN: Master Shakespeare, you aware of the concern your character of Falstaff has caused to Sir John Oldcastle? 
BACON: It was so obviously he. 
SHAKESPEARE: Yes, well. I can explain, your Majesty. 
QUEEN: You admit it then. 
SHAKESPEARE: Yes, your Majesty. 
QUEEN: Good. Give it no more thought. We found it very amusing. Tell me, have any plans to write a further play on him? 
SHAKESPEARE: No. 
QUEEN: Oh. 
SHAKESPEARE: No, I haven't, your Majesty.

[Tardis]

QUEEN [on monitor]: That's a pity. But it does not matter. We have idea which may be of service. You shall write a play of Falstaff in love.

[Palace]

QUEEN: Does that not fire your imagination? 
SHAKESPEARE: Oh, a happy idea, your Majesty. Yes. 
QUEEN: Away with you, Will. To your pen. 
(back behind the tapestry) 
BACON: I also have an idea that you may wish to use. The history of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. 
SHAKESPEARE: I'm afraid not, sire. 
BACON: Oh, do you know the story then? 
SHAKESPEARE: I assure you, my lord, it would not be quite in my style. 
BACON: Very well then, scribbler. 
SHAKESPEARE: Hamlet, Prince of Denmark?

[Tardis]

IAN: Well, Barbara, did you find out what you wanted to know? 
BARBARA: I didn't really want to know anything. I just wanted to see Elizabeth's court. Did you see the way Shakespeare looked when he thought of Hamlet? 
IAN: Yes, I did. I 
(Vicki puts in her selection) 
IAN: Well, where are we now? 
VICKI: Shh. 
ANNOUNCER [OC]: This is BBC One. The next programme is due to start in just under one minute. 
BARBARA: Vicki, what year have you got on there? 
VICKI: 1965. 
DOCTOR: Come along, come. 
IAN: You've got a television. 
VICKI: Shh! 
IAN: showing 
VICKI: I want to watch it. 
HOST [on monitor]: Here singing their latest number one hit it's the fabulous wait for it. It's the fabulous Beatles! 
VICKI: Yes! Fabulous! 
BEATLES: I think I'm gonna be sad, I think it's today, yeah! The girl that's driving me mad, Is going away. 
She's gotta ticket to ride, She's gotta ticket to ride. She's gotta ticket to ride, and she don't care. My baby don't care. 
(Everyone is bopping and singing along until Barbara leans on the volume and they loose the picture) 
IAN: Oh, Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Now you've squashed my favourite Beatles! 
IAN: Vicki, I had no idea you knew about the Beatles. 
VICKI: Of course I know about them. I've been to their Memorial Theatre in Liverpool. 
BARBARA: Well, what do you think of them, Vicki? 
VICKI: Well, they're marvellous, but I didn't know they played classical music! 
BARBARA: Classical music? 
IAN: Get with it, Barbara. Get with it. Styles change, styles change. 
DOCTOR: I think you'd better turn it off, my dear. Yes, we're about to materialise. 
(The Tardis materialises in an apparently empty expanse) 
DOCTOR: Well, everything appears to be all right. Yes. The oxygen's high and the gravity is a little greater than Earth.

[Outside the Tardis]

BARBARA: Oh, it's hot. 
DOCTOR: Well, it's no small wonder. Look up there, my dear. Look. Two suns moving very quickly. I expect the days and nights are very short here. 
VICKI: Are we going to explore now then? 
BARBARA: I shouldn't think there is anything to explore. Just miles and miles of sand. And those strange things. 
(sculptures against the horizon) 
VICKI: You never know. Over that sand-dune there might be a city or a space-station or anything. 
DOCTOR: The child's just like me, you know. Always wants to know what's on t'other side of the hill. 
VICKI: I'm gonna find out too! 
BARBARA: Vicki, come back. 
IAN: I'd better follow her. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no, Chesterton, here, here. 
IAN: What? 
DOCTOR: Look here, you'd better take this Tardis magnet with you. Watch that little green light in there. Don't drop it, otherwise you'll get lost. 
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: All right, I'm coming. We won't go any further than the ridge. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. 
BARBARA: Look at her. 
IAN: Don't worry. I'll look after her. 
VICKI: Come on! 
IAN: All right, Christopher Columbus! Hang on.

(Dune]

VICKI: Come on. 
IAN: Yes, over there. 
VICKI: Look at this thing. 
IAN: What is it? It looks like a man, doesn't it? 
VICKI: Yes. but of frozen seaweed. Funny shape. 
IAN: Funny smell. 
(At the top of the ridge, Vicki's foot slips on something.) 
VICKI: Oh! Ian. Ian! Come and look at this. 
IAN: Hey. You know this gadget of the Doctor's? It really works. 
VICKI: Never mind that. Look at this. 
IAN: What? What is it? 
VICKI: I don't know. 
IAN: Pooh! What an awful smell. Well, at least it's not a pool of acid. 
VICKI: That makes a change. Look, there's more of it. 
IAN: Yeah. 
VICKI: It's a trail. 
IAN: Probably blood. 
VICKI: Oh yes, it's bound to be. Come on, let's see where it leads. 
IAN: All right. It is ingenious, this. 
(After they leave, a long tentacle lifts itself out of the sand)

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor and Barbara are sunbathing fully clothed on blankets. The Doctor starts singing) 
BARBARA: What's that awful noise? 
DOCTOR: I beg your pardon? awful noise? That's no way to talk about my singing! 
BARBARA: No, Doctor, not that awful noise, the other one. Listen to it! 
(It's a high pitched whine) 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, it sounds like the Visualiser. I think it's still on. Yes, would you mind going in and switching it off for me, dear? 
BARBARA: Okay. I've had enough sun anyway. 
DOCTOR: Yes, thank you. 
(Barbara leaves) 
DOCTOR: Oh, awful noise, indeed. Ha! I can charm the nightingales out of the trees.

[Tardis]

(Barbara tries to turn off the visualiser, but gets a signal instead) 
DALEK [OC]: The Supreme Dalek is ready to receive your report! 
DALEK [on monitor]: The report is ready. 
BARBARA: Doctor! Doctor, come quickly! 
DOCTOR [OC]: Yes, all right, my dear, all right, all right. What is it now? Gracious me, can't I even relax for five 
(The Doctor enters) 
DOCTOR: The Daleks!

[Control room]

BLACK: Give your report. 
DALEK: Our time machine has been completed. 
BLACK: The operation will proceed at once. The movement scanners have located the enemy time machine, Tardis. 
DALEKS: Tardis! Tardis! Tardis! Tardis! Tardis!

[Tardis]

BARBARA: Doctor, he said the Tardis. And look, on their screen, that's us. 
DOCTOR: What is more important, he referred to the Tardis as the enemy time machine.

[Control room]

BLACK: At present it lies in the Segaro desert of the planet Aridius. 
DALEK: We await command. 
BLACK: The Doctor and the three humans delayed our conquest of Earth. 
DALEK 2: Daleks cannot be defeated! 
DALEK: To defy Daleks is death! 
DALEK 1: They will pay for their crime! 
BLACK: Annihilate! 
DALEKS: Annihilate! Annihilate! Annihilate! Annihilate! Annihilate! 
BLACK: The assassination group will embark at once in our time machine. They pursue the humans through all eternity. They must be destroyed! Exterminate them! Exterminate! Exterminate! Exterminate! 
(Six Daleks trundle into their time machine like cars going into a fairground ghost ride, then it dematerialises)

[Tardis]

(The Doctor turns off the Visualiser) 
DOCTOR: My machine can only pick up the things that happened in the past. 
BARBARA: Then they're on their way here. 
DOCTOR: Or worse, already here. You heard their orders. We are to be exterminated! 
BARBARA: But Doctor, can't we get away from them? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes, but Ian and the child. Come on, we have such little time.

[Dunes]

(they crest the dune) 
VICKI: Oh, come on, keep going. 
IAN: What do you think I am? One of these funny things? Yes, well, no space city, Vicki. 
VICKI: (unintelligible on the location film) 
(further on, back in the studio, they stop and sit) 
VICKI: The trail just ends. 
IAN: Well, we're a long way from the Tardis now, Vicki. 
VICKI: Yeah. 
IAN: We ought to get back really, you know. 
VICKI: Yeah. 
IAN: They'll be missing us. 
VICKI: If you look at the sun through your fingers, you have twenty instead of ten. 
IAN: Yes. Oh, I could do with a drink. 
VICKI: Oh yes. We should get back, you know. 
IAN: Yeah. Soon be dark, you know. Look at those suns. Just like the Doctor said. They move fast. Hard, this ground, isn't it? Like glass. 
VICKI: Come on, Ian. Let's go. 
IAN: Yeah, all right. Hello, what's this? 
(He brushes the sand away) 
IAN: A ring. A ring in the sand. 
VICKI: No! No! The ring in the field! 
IAN: What? What are you talking about? What's the matter? 
(Vicki's started laughing) 
VICKI: Well, you see, when I was very young. 
IAN: Yes? 
VICKI: Near where I lived there was a field, and in this field there was a ring, just like that, sticking out of the ground. You see, the point was, on the other side of the hedge, there was a castle, an enormous thing, with a drawbridge. 
(It has gone dark now) 
VICKI: And 
IAN: Well, go on. 
VICKI: We had this thing, that if we pulled that ring 
IAN: Yes? 
VICKI: The drawbridge would come down and something awful would come out. 
IAN: Oh, Vicki, look around you. Can you see a castle anywhere? 
VICKI: No, but for heavens sake, something's going to happen if we pull that thing. 
IAN: Well, shall I pull it or shan't I? 
VICKI: Yes, all right, go on. 
IAN: I think I'll move it now. 
VICKI: Try turning it. 
IAN: No, won't turn. Hold on. 
(It suddenly comes away and he tumbles backwards) 
IAN: Ah, Excalibur! (throws it away) Come on. No castles, no drawbridges. Back we go. 
(There's a creaking sound and they run back to see a trapdoor has opened. Vicki starts to go down the steps.) 
IAN: Vicki, just check it, eh? 
VICKI: Yes. Steps. 
(Meanwhile) 
BARBARA: Vicki! Ian! Nothing. 
DOCTOR: The wretched wind has wiped out all their tracks. It's so cold here. 
BARBARA: Yeah, come on Doctor, let's go back to the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Ah, this way, dear. 
BARBARA: No, no, no, it's that way. I remember. 
DOCTOR: I have the directional instincts of a homing pigeon. Now, come along. Follow me.

[Underground]

IAN: Hello! 
(There's a late echo. It's dark and Ian almost misses his footing) 
VICKI: Oh! Oh, Ian, stay over here by this wall. 
(A tentacle closes the trapdoor. They can just make out the blobby shape in the dark)

[Planet surface]

(A sandstorm is raging) 
(The Doctor points one way, but Barbara spots it in another direction. They collapse under the onslaught of the wind) 
(Next morning, they lift their heads to see) 
BARBARA: It's changed. The whole landscape's changed! The Tardis has gone. There's no sign of it! 
DOCTOR: It's probably got buried in that sandstorm. 
BARBARA: But where? All these stretches of sand look exactly alike. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, wait a minute, wait a minute. I've got an idea. Let's have a look at the Tardis magnet. Oh, I'm sorry, I just remembered I gave it to Ian. Well, come on, come on. We can't waste time. Let's get going. That sun'll be up in a minute and we've no food and there's no water, no shade. Get down! Get down! 
BARBARA: Oh! What's the matter? 
(A Dalek rises from the sand, grumbling to itself)

Episode Two - The Death of Time

[Planet surface]

DOCTOR: Keep your head down. They haven't seen us yet. 
BARBARA: Doctor, look! There's more of them. 
DALEK 2: The enemy time machine is in this area. 
DALEK 1: We can locate the position with our seismic detectors. 
DALEK 2: Find and destroy it. The remainder will search for the humans. 
DALEK 1: Are they to be taken alive? 
DALEK 2: No. They are to be exterminated. 
DALEK 1: Good. 
DALEK 2: Destroyed. 
DALEK 1: Exterminated. 
DALEK 2: Now, let the search begin. 
DOCTOR: Stay down. One of them's coming this way. (they duck down) We must find the Tardis before they do. 
BARBARA: Yes, and we must warn Ian and Vicki. They don't even know the Daleks are here. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Warn them? But how? We haven't seen them for hours. Anyway, it's no good hanging about here. Come on, let's get moving, come on.
(The Doctor and Barbara are confronted by reptile-like bipeds)

[Chamber]

(Vicki screams) 
IAN: Don't just stand there and scream, you little fool. Run!

[Tunnel]

(But there's another one in their path) 
VICKI: Oh, don't just standing there gaping, you nit! Come on, back! 
(Ian throws a rock at it)

[Planet surface]

DALEK 1: Wait. Tracks of the humans. 
DALEK 2: Follow them. 
DALEK 1: Wait. Perceptor indicates someone is near. It draws closer. 
DALEK 2: Destroy on sight. 
(One of the reptilians comes over a dune and gets shot.) 
DALEK 1: An Aridian. One of the species that inhabits this planet. Unimportant. Continue the search. 
(Back with the Doctor and Barbara) 
MALSAN: (to Barbara) This desert was once a vast ocean. We, the Aridians, lived in a city beneath the sea, but for a thousand years those twin suns that burn, have moved closer and closer. 
RYNIAN: (to the Doctor) Then, then the seas dried up and all the creatures that lived within their waters perished. 
(Everyone, say Hi! to Hywel Bennett) 
MALSAN: All but the Mire Beasts. 
BARBARA: Mire Beasts? What are they? 
MALSAN: They lived in the slime, at the bottom of the ocean. When the waters were gone they invaded our cities. 
RYNIAN: There were too many of them. We tried to destroy them. They multiplied too quickly for us. We were driven back as the Mire Beasts took over more and more of our beautiful city. 
DOCTOR: These Mire Beasts, what do they feed on? 
MALSAN: They are flesh eaters. 
DOCTOR: You mean they attack humans? 
MALSAN: Of course. 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious. 
BARBARA: Doctor. Look, two of our friends went out into the desert. Will you help us find them? 
RYNIAN: When did you see them last? 
BARBARA: Last night. 
MALSAN: The Mire Beasts hunt at night. 
RYNIAN: Do you think they are near or far? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't think they can travel far in this sand. 
MALSAN: Then they might have gone through the Taltarian air-lock, into the tunnels. 
RYNIAN: Then it is too late. 
BARBARA: What do you mean, it's too late? 
RYNIAN: It is to be exploded. 
DOCTOR: Exploded? 
RYNIAN: Yes, the air-lock. You see, we Aridians have learned the only way to destroy the Mire Beast is to entomb them in the sections of the city they have occupied. 
MALSAN: The Taltarian air-lock will be detonated at high suns. 
BARBARA: Well then, we must stop it! 
RYNIAN: No, we would not reach the air-lock in time. 
(Barbara becomes frantic and grabs Rynian) 
DOCTOR: Now, hush, hush, hush. 
BARBARA: Look, where, where is this place? 
RYNIAN: If we move faster than the suns? 
MALSAN: We will try. Follow! (later, at the explosives detonator) 
PRONDYN: It's high sun.

[Tunnel]

(Vicki gets a tentacle around her neck) 
VICKI: Ian! 
IAN: Vicki! 
(Ian frees her as the explosives are detonated. Sand flies up into the air and rocks fall down into the tunnel. Ian is knocked out. The Mire Beast is dead.) 
VICKI: Ian! Ian! Oh! (she rolls him over) Oh, Ian. I'll get help. I'll find the Doctor and get help.

[City entrance]

(a large hole in the ground) 
MALSAN: We have arrived. This is the gate to our city. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid I can't see any signs of a city. 
MALSAN: This old air-lock. We used it when our city was beneath the sea. It will take us to a part of our home that is still free from Mire Beasts. 
DOCTOR: I see. Well, we're very grateful for your hospitality but I must you the Daleks are right on top of us. And I don't want either you or your people involved in any of this dangerous business. If they knew you'd given us shelter, they'll show no mercy. 
MALSAN: No matter. First, you need food and rest. Then we will help you search for your time machine. 
DOCTOR: Ah, splendid, splendid. 
MALSAN: Open the lock. 
RYNIAN: Please enter. There is no danger. 
DOCTOR: Barbara! Barbara, my dear, Come along, come along, come along.

[Planet surface]

DALEK 1: The seismic detector is registering a contact. 
DALEK 2: The enemy time machine is beneath the sand at this point. 
DALEK 1: Then it was buried by last night's storm. 
DALEK 2: It must be uncovered before we can destroy it. 
DALEK 1: Yes. 
DALEK 2: We will take some Aridians prisoner. 
DALEK 1: Yes. 
DALEK 2: And use them to dig the ship free. 
DALEK 1: Yes. 
DALEK 2: Well, see to it! 
DALEK 1: I obey!

[City chamber]

DOCTOR: Mmm. I think this is absolutely delicious. It's a most unusual flavour, isn't it? 
BARBARA: Doctor, how can you sit there eating when Ian and 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, you think I'm being callous do you? 
BARBARA: Yes, I do. 
DOCTOR: And I think it's pure supposition that they've been caught by those Mire Beasts. After all, we weren't. You haven't much faith in Ian's infallible self-preservation, have you? 
BARBARA: I'm sorry. This place gives me the creeps. 
DOCTOR: Oh rubbish, my dear, rubbish. I think it's fascinating. Yes, you could almost call it beautiful. You know, I think you're tired. Close your eyes and try and get some rest. Go on, go on. We must conserve our strength if we're going to get back to the Tardis. (to himself) Yes, if ever we can get back to the Tardis. Ah, Malsan. 
MALSAN: You enjoyed your meal? 
DOCTOR: Oh, indeed. Yes, indeed, yes. Yes, it was a most unusual taste. You know, I've been taking stock of this place, having a jolly good look round here. Tell me, why is this opening walled up? 
MALSAN: It led to a part of our city that's been invaded by Mire Beasts. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
MALSAN: It is the same all over. We have to block off tunnels to stop their advance. Do please sit down. I have some news for you. 
DOCTOR: Now, what is it? 
MALSAN: The leader of the Daleks has communicated with us. They have issued an ultimatum. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suspected something of that kind might happen. What is it? 
MALSAN: We hand you over to them, or they will destroy what remains of our city. 
DOCTOR: They mean what they say. They don't make idle threats. Have you replied? 
MALSAN: Not yet. The elders are still discussing it. We have a half-sun in which to give them our answer. 
DOCTOR: You haven't much choice, have you? Well, I don't propose to inflict our troubles on you, sir, so I think we'll leave and take our chances. 
MALSAN: No, no, no. The Daleks have said that we must hand you over, not set you free to try and escape. 
DOCTOR: Do you mean? 
MALSAN: You must be our prisoners, until such time as our arrangements with the Daleks have been completed. Then, if the elders agree, you will be given into their custody.

[Planet surface]

(Vicki has found some stone steps leading out through another airlock to discover the Tardis surrounded by Daleks.) 
DALEK 1: The digging is completed. Are the prisoners to go free? 
DALEK 2: No. They are worthless inferior creatures. 
DALEK 3: They have no value to us. Destroy them. 
(So they do.) 
DALEK 2: Destroy the enemy time machine. Use full power. Fire! Again. Fire! It is undamaged. 
DALEK 1: It must be constructed of a material that can resist our neutralisers. 
DALEK 3: Failure. 
DALEK 2: Remain on guard until the prisoners have been handed over and exterminated. 
DALEK 1+3: We obey.

[Chamber]

(Vicki goes back underground and retraces her steps)

[City chamber]

(The Doctor wakes Barbara.) 
DOCTOR: Are you feeling better? 
BARBARA: Yes. What's happened? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's not too good, I'm afraid. Ah, this looks like bad news coming now. 
BARBARA: Bad news? What bad news? 
RYNIAN: The elders have made their reply to the Daleks. 
MALSAN: They must be told. 
RYNIAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Well? 
RYNIAN: Have you eaten? 
DOCTOR: What is the news, hmm? 
RYNIAN: You are to be handed over at last suns. The Daleks have promised that when the execution is over they will Aridius unharmed. 
BARBARA: You're going to hand us over to the Daleks? 
RYNIAN: We have no choice. The elders have so decreed. Please. 
DOCTOR: They have no choice. 
BARBARA: Yes, but just to be handed over like that? 
DOCTOR: Two hours. Their suns are due to set in two hours.

[Tunnel]

(Ian comes to) 
IAN: Vicki. Vicki! Vicki! 
(Meanwhile, Vicki is grabbed by an Aridian) 
PRONDYN: You must come with me.

[City chamber]

(Some stone dust falls on Barbara) 
BARBARA: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
BARBARA: Where does this walled up section lead? 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's another part of the city, I believe. The part that was invaded. 
(Vicki is brought in) 
BARBARA: Vicki! Vicki, where's Ian?! 
DOCTOR: Is Ian, is Chesterton all right? 
VICKI: He got a bad knock on the head. I made him as comfortable as possible and came to get help. 
BARBARA: It might have been better if you'd stayed where you were. 
VICKI: No, it wouldn't, because on my way here I found an exit out of one of the tunnels, and just outside it, the Tardis! 
DOCTOR: Ah, well, well, well now! That puts a different complexion on the matter. Tell me, my dear, this tunnel, would you know how to find it again? 
VICKI: Yes, I'm sure of it. A big iron door, just beyond that opening over there. 
BARBARA: Oh Doctor, maybe things will be all right after all. 
DOCTOR: Yes, now I can 
MALSAN: It is time. I am to take you to the main airlock. 
(A tentacle pushes through the walled-up doorway. It grabs Barbara as the stonework comes falling down.) 
DOCTOR: Barbara! Barbara! 
(The Mire Beast comes into the chamber, the Doctor gets Barbara away from it then they and Vicki runs while it feasts on a fallen Aridian.) (Meanwhile, Ian has also found the exit by the Tardis, and seen the Daleks standing guard in the gloom. He goes back underground)

[Tunnel]

VICKI: Down here. 
BARBARA: Are you sure this is the right way? 
VICKI: Course I am. Come on.

[Planet surface]

DALEK 2: The prisoners have escaped from the Aridians. 
DALEK 1: Are we to proceed with the destruction of the underground city? 
DALEK 2: The Aridians have one hour to re-capture the humans. If they fail, we act. 
DALEK 1: I understand. 
DALEK 3: The humans may try to reach their machine. 
DALEK 2: Remain on guard. 
DALEK 1: I obey.

[Chamber]

(Ian is collecting long pieces of wood when ) 
VICKI: Come on. 
BARBARA: Ian! 
IAN: Barbara! 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, come here! 
VICKI: Are you all right? 
BARBARA: There's blood all over your face. 
IAN: It looks worse than it is. Look. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy! 
IAN: The Tardis, it's only twenty yards away but there's a Dalek guarding it. 
BARBARA: Well, we must get past it. 
IAN: Now listen, I've got a very good idea. You two go first. 
BARBARA: Yes. 
IAN: You get out of here and there's a ridge of sand on the left. Now you take cover. You get in a good position where you can nip in. 
BARBARA: Nip in what? 
IAN: The Tardis! 
BARBARA: Yes, yes, come on, come on. 
(Barbara takes Vicki's hand) 
IAN: Off you go. Oh, er, Barbara, could, I, er, have your cardigan? 
DOCTOR: Quickly, quickly! 
BARBARA: Oh, not again. 
IAN: It's for the Dalek, not for me. 
BARBARA: Here. 
VICKI: I hope it suits him. 
IAN: Off you go. 
DOCTOR: Come along. 
IAN: Oh, Doctor? Your coat, please. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, we're trying to beat the Daleks, not start a jumble sale. 
IAN: All will be revealed in due time, Doctor. Your coat, please. 
DOCTOR: Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear.

[Planet surface]

VICKI: What are they going to do, Barbara? 
BARBARA: I don't know. Try to get the Dalek away from the Tardis, I should think.

[Chamber exit]

(The wood is being laid across a hole in the ground above them, with the clothes on top) 
DOCTOR: What is the point of all this, dear boy? 
IAN: Doctor, with any luck, with your coat and Barbara's cardigan, we're going to make a trap. We're going to lure the Dalek over this trap, and with any luck it'll fall down here. 
DOCTOR: That's a good scheme. Yes, that's a good idea. 
IAN: Keep down! 
DOCTOR: Mmm.

[Planet surface]

VICKI: But how? 
BARBARA: I don't know. Wait and see.

[Chamber exit]

(They throw sand over the clothes) 
IAN: Right. 
DOCTOR: Well, I hope it works. 
IAN: All right, Doctor. Now, I'm going first. When you follow, you keep on that side. You keep. Plenty of cover, eh? 
DOCTOR: All right. Careful.

[Planet surface]

IAN: Yoo-hoo! Dalek! Over here, friend! 
(The Dalek fires, Ian ducks) 
DOCTOR: Yoo-hoo, Auntie! 
(The Dalek fires, the Doctor ducks) 
VICKI: Oy! 
IAN: Over here! 
DOCTOR: Hey! 
(The Dalek fires wildly into the dark, then trundles forward and falls down the hole.) 
IAN: Try and get out of that hole, Fred. 
BARBARA: Well, that got rid of that one. 
IAN: Yeah! 
VICKI: Look! 
IAN: Quick! Into the Tardis! 
DOCTOR: Go on! 
(Three Daleks start firing as the Tardis dematerialises) 
DALEK 4: Cease firing. They have escaped. 
DALEK 3: Final termination is inevitable. 
DALEK 4: Eradicate! 
DALEK 2: Obliterate! 
DALEK 4: Annihilate! 
DALEK 2: We will embark in our time machine at once. The Dalek Supreme has ordered they are to be pursued through all eternity. Pursued and exterminated!

Episode Three - Flight Through Eternity

[Tardis]

VICKI: We did it! We did it! 
DOCTOR: Yes, young lady, a very good thing we did. We might not you know. 
BARBARA: Oh, come on, Doctor. You weren't exactly bursting with confidence when the Aridians held us prisoner. 
DOCTOR: A momentary qualm, a momentary qualm. Nothing more, nothing more. 
IAN: Yes, I had a qualm or two myself. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. 
IAN: Hey, I wonder how those Mire Beasts are enjoying that Dalek, eh? Bit gritty. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't know. I should think a little Pate de Dalek a la Mire Beast might be rather palatable. 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Well, we can always drop you off to find out. 
IAN: Thank you very much. 
VICKI: We've just escaped from those things. We don't want to be sent back there. 
DOCTOR: Ah and I don't think we shall run into them again. And I think you must agree that we gave them a very good hiding. Yes, yes, yes. 
(Something is beeping) 
IAN: What's this, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: That's my Time Path Detector. It's been in the ship ever since I constructed it. But do you know, I don't remember it registering before? 
BARBARA: What does it show? 
DOCTOR: Well, it surveys the time path we're travelling on. The fact that it's registering can only mean one thing. 
IAN: Well, yes, go on. 
DOCTOR: It's another time machine travelling on the same route.

[Dalek time machine]

DALEK 4: Enemy time machine position now constant. 
DALEK 2: Lock tracking device. 
DALEK 4: Tracking device locked. 
DALEK 3: Report extent of time curve. 
DALEK 2: Seven seven three Dalekian scale, nine one five degrees. 
DALEK 4: Compute time lag by earth scale. 
DALEK 5: Er, one, er, forty, er. Computer reading one five earth minutes, reducing. 
DALEK 3: We are close behind them. 
DALEK 1: Success! Success! 
DALEK 2: Exterminate! 
DALEK 1: Success! 
DALEK 2: Final victory inevitable! 
DALEK 3: Order executioner to prepare to disembark. 
DALEK 2: I obey.

[Tardis]

(Vicki gives Barbara a bar to eat) 
BARBARA: What flavour is it? 
VICKI: Guava. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's useless, useless. 
IAN: Hello, hello. Got our battle dress on again? 
BARBARA: The Doctor doesn't seem to be having much luck. 
IAN: No. Well, if we can't escape from them, we'll have to stay and fight 'them. 
VICKI: But we're in front. We could keep moving. 
BARBARA: Yes, but for how long, Vicki? 
VICKI: Let's ask the Doctor. He should know by now what he's going to do. 
DOCTOR: Ah, I'm afraid it's no good. I'm quite unable to elude them. 
IAN: Doctor, what are we going to do when we land? Just wait for the Daleks to catch us up? 
DOCTOR: It takes twelve minutes for our computers to re-orientate and gather power. Now, that twelve minutes is vital to us. We must hold onto it. Give me time to be able to do something whereby 
IAN: Why don't we just go faster, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, please, just leave it to me, dear boy, just leave it to me, will you? 
VICKI: Doctor, the time rotor. Doctor, it's slowing down. 
DOCTOR: Oh, that means we can land in two minutes. 
BARBARA: But where, Doctor, where?

[Empire State Building Observation deck]

(Tourists are getting the tour) 
GUIDE: Here on top of the Empire State Building, you're on the hundredth and second storey above the ground level. At a height of one thousand four hundred and seventy three feet. This is the tallest building, the tallest structure in the entire world. Now you'll note, when you come up in the elevator, it took you seven minutes. Well, this way down, you wanna get down in a hurry, it would take you thirty seconds. 
(laughter) 
GUIDE: Well, of course, we don't recommend that. Now as we gaze out across the panorama. As we gaze out across the imposing panorama of our proud city, you will notice many other notable buildings. Among them the Chrysler Tower, that's one thousand and forty six feet high, and the Chanin Tower, that's six hundred and eighty feet high and already it's threatened with obsolescence. 
MORTON: (cowboy hat and camera) With ob what? 
GUIDE: Observe also the mighty Hudson river and now if you'll come with me to the north aspect of the building, I will point out many more items of interest. 
(The Guide hustles his group away but Morton stays behind to look through the telescope. Everyone say Hi! to Peter Purves in his first Who role) 
(The Tardis materialises) 
MORTON: We sure don't have anything like that in Alabama! No sir, ha! 
(He turns to follow the tour group, then) 
MORTON: I could have sworn that thing wasn't there just now? Well, I guess that's New York for ya! Ha! 
(Barbara comes out of the Tardis) 
MORTON: Morning. 
BARBARA: You're from Earth. 
MORTON: No, no, Ma'am. No, I'm from Alabama. 
BARBARA: What time is it? 
MORTON: Three after twelve, Ma'am. 
BARBARA: I really meant what year is it? 
MORTON: What, you mean you have different years here? 
BARBARA: Well, what year is it in Alabama? 
MORTON: 1966 Ma'am. Say, you wouldn't be trying to have a bit of fun with me now, would you? 
BARBARA: No, no. 
VICKI: Afternoon. 
MORTON: Mornin'. 1966. 
VICKI: Oh, er, thank you. 
MORTON: Pleased to oblige you, Miss! 
VICKI: I recognise this place. It's Ancient New York. 
MORTON: Ancient? 
VICKI: There were pictures of it in our history books. It was destroyed in the Dalek invasion. 
MORTON: Wait, how many more of you are there in that thing? 
DOCTOR: Oh, just the four of us, young man. 
MORTON: Must be a kind of tight squeeze. They can't all have come out of there. 
IAN: Doctor? This is no place to meet the Daleks. A lot of innocent people could get hurt. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so, quite so, dear boy. Well, the computers will be ready in a few moments. I suggest that we re-embark. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Vicki, Barbara, come along. 
MORTON: Hey, you goin' back in? 
BARBARA: Yes, that's right. 
MORTON: Oh now, come on, wait a minute. I just bet you folks are from Hollywood. You're making some kind of motion picture. Now that's it, ain't it? 
DOCTOR: No, it ain't! I mean, it isn't. 
MORTON: Come on, you can tell me. Your secret will be safe. Yes, sir, real safe. 
DOCTOR: Secret? 
MORTON: Sure, I've seen this trick before. Great long police cars comin' outa tiny little wooden sheds. I saw you come outa there with ma own eyes! You just ain't gonna make it back it again. 
VICKI: Goodbye. 
BARBARA: Goodbye! 
IAN: Goodbye! 
(Morton slaps the Doctor on the back) 
MORTON: Hot diggety! I knew I was right. You should be wearing Police uniforms, you all is, you all is in a chase. 
DOCTOR: Chase? Yes, as a matter of fact, young man, that's exactly what this is. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must be getting along. It's the chase, you know? 
MORTON: Sure thing, Mister! I understand. Just wait til I tell the folks back home I met some real live movie pe (knocks on Tardis door) Do you know Cheyenne Bodie? Look, just wait a minute, I want to get this thing on celluloid. 
(The Tardis dematerialises) 
MORTON: That's real clever, how they done that. Sure if it don't beat all. 
(The Dalek's ship materialise) 
MORTON: Sure is clever. Gol darn it if they ain't gone and done it again. 
(A Dalek comes out) 
MORTON: Howdy, Mister! Say, you sure are an ugly looking friend. Wait, what's the name of this film, Mister? My, my, boy, you've come all over in blue spots. What's this thing here? 
(He grabs the Dalek's ray gun and gets pushed against the wire mesh for his troubles) 
MORTON: Now, just, now now! There ain't no need to get sore. The other movie people was right friendly. 
DALEK: Movie pe? Where are they? 
MORTON: They just left. They was in some kind of beat-up old blue wooden box. It just kinda like vanished. Say, I thought they'd have been chasing you. Just hold it there, Mister. I want to get a picture of this. 
(The Dalek ship dematerialises) 
MORTON: Sure is the greatest 
(But he's missed the shot again) 
MORTON: Well, dang me if they ain't gone and done it again. This is the greatest thing. It's gotta be around here somewhere. Just can't vanish into thin air. I know you're there somewhere, boy. 
(Morton starts feeling the air and stamping on the floor as the group returns) 
GUIDE: I enjoy my work gives me a chance to meet people. You know. I get around 
MORTON: There's gotta be a trick to it somehow! Yes, sir, I bet this here's hollow. That's what it is. 
GUIDE: He's a nutter. Keep an eye on him. See that he don't jump off the building. I'll get a cop. Watch him. 
MORTON: Coming back. They should

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder. 
VICKI: They're still on our track. 
DOCTOR: Catching us up, are they? Will you get my screwdriver, child? The large one. The one that I was fiddling with on the Visualiser. 
VICKI: Okay. 
(Ian and Barbara carry a piece of equipment in) 
BARBARA: Oh, this thing's heavy. 
DOCTOR: Yes, thank you, thank you. 
IAN: Is this going to work, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Maybe, I'm not sure. But if they're going to catch us up, we've got to find something to fight back with. 
BARBARA: Oh, Doctor, why don't we just stay where we are? 
DOCTOR: That's out of the question, my dear. The vacuum in space, we should all be dead in no time. 
VICKI: Here you are. 
DOCTOR: Ah, thank you, thank you. 
VICKI: What's this all about? 
DOCTOR: Well, the idea is, my dear, is to find something that we can fight back with. 
BARBARA: Doctor, we're landing! 
DOCTOR: But I'm not ready! I'm not ready! We can't meet them now! Oh, good gracious! No, wait a minute. We shall have to land and then take off as quickly as we can again.

[Ship's deck]

(A two-masted brigantine with an American crew, at 5 bells) 
RICHARDSON: (Albert C, ship's mate) Land about six miles off to the south south west, sir. 
BRIGGS: (Benjamin S, Captain) Aye, that'll be the island of Santa Maria. One of the Azores group. We're making poor time, Mister Richardson. And now it becalmed, after the storm. 
RICHARDSON: I'll mark a reading on the deck log, sir. 
BRIGGS: I'm going below if you should want me. Sarah says our child has sickness. 
RICHARDSON: Oh, I'm sorry to hear about that, sir. 
(The Tardis materialises) 
BARBARA: It is a ship, Ian. It's a sailing ship at sea. 
IAN: Barbara, don't go wandering off, please. 
BARBARA: I just want to have a look. I love sailing ships. 
IAN: There's no point in being seen. 
BARBARA: No, well, I'll just have a look over the ship's rail. 
IAN: No, no, the Doctor's at the controls, we're 
(Ian goes back inside) 
RICHARDSON: Got you! 
BARBARA: Oh, let go of me! Let go of me! 
RICHARDSON: No, you don't, my beauty! Captain Richardson's got a way of dealing with stowaways. 
BARBARA: I am not a stowaway and you're hurting my hands! 
RICHARDSON: Just you keep still. Where've you been hiding since we set sail, eh? 
BARBARA: I haven't been hiding. I have just come on board! 
RICHARDSON: Oh, I suppose you're some sort of a mermaid that's lost at sea, eh? You swam out from Santa Maria there just to give us poor lonely sailormen a little bit of feminine company, eh? 
(Vicki sees the struggle and grabs a weapon)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Well, everything appears to be in order, my boy. 
IAN: Oh, we haven't done very well so far, Doctor, have we? Let's face it. First of all, we land on top of a skyscraper, now we land on a crummy old ship. What we need is space. 
DOCTOR: Indeed, indeed. Well, we're ready to move on. Now, would you tell the ladies that I want to get away, please. 
IAN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
IAN: Barbara's got a case of call of the sea. 
DOCTOR: Ah, I'm sorry about that too. 
[Ship's deck]

BARBARA: You're hurting my hand! Look, even if I told you the truth, you wouldn't believe me. 
RICHARDSON: I believe what I see. Now, come along! You're going before the Captain! 
(Vicki knocks him out) 
BARBARA: Well done. Thanks, Vicki! 
VICKI: That's all right. Any time. 
BARBARA: Hey, there's somebody coming. Hide! 
(It's Ian.) 
BARBARA: Oh. 
(Ian gets hit on the head too) 
VICKI: Got him! I got him! 
BARBARA: Yes. 
VICKI: Oh! 
BARBARA: Vicki! Vicki, quickly! 
VICKI: Oh! Oh, Ian, I'm terribly sorry! Did I hurt you? 
BARBARA: Oh, that's a silly question! Come on, let's get him into the ship. 
VICKI: Oh, Ian. I didn't mean it! Oh, Ian. 
(Richardson wakes, and the Tardis dematerialises) 
RICHARDSON: Captain Briggs! Captain! Captain Briggs! 
BRIGGS: Yes, Mister Richardson? 
RICHARDSON: Captain, there was a thing. It was on the lower deck. 
BRIGGS: What are you talking about? 
RICHARDSON: A stowaway, sir. She got away from me. 
BRIGGS: A stowaway, eh? A girl? 
RICHARDSON: Aye, sir. 
BRIGGS: Mister Bosun! Pipe all hands amidships. We've a stowaway. 
BOSUN: Aye, aye, sir! 
BRIGGS: How'd she get away? 
RICHARDSON: I got hit over the head. 
BRIGGS: By her? 
RICHARDSON: No, sir, it couldn't have been, because I was holding her arms. Do you think it was the white Barbary terror? 
BRIGGS: That's ungodly superstition, Mister Richardson. 
BRIGGS: We've more than one stowaway aboard, Mister Bosun. 
BOSUN: Aye, sir. The storm must have bought them out of their hiding place. 
BRIGGS: Aye, lad. I want them found. Each watch can take a section of the ship and search it thoroughly. 
RICHARDSON: I'll take the forward hold, sir. Mister Bosun, take Starkey and Willoughby, search up aft. 
BOSUN: Starkey, Willoughby. 
BRIGGS: And Bosun, I'll thank you not to disturb my wife and child. 
BOSUN: Aye, aye, sir. The rest of youse men search the hold. Keep your hands off the cargo.

[Dalek time machine]

DALEK 2: We shall soon be arriving. Order the search party to stand by. 
DALEK 3: They are ready. 
DALEK 4: Is that where the humans have landed? 
DALEK 2: Yes. Join the search party and prepare to disembark. We are materialising now.

[Ship's deck]

BOSUN: There's nobody here, Willoughby. 
WILLOUGHBY: We'll try below. 
BOSUN: The white terror! The white terror of Barbary! 
DALEK: Where are the time travellers? 
WILLOUGHBY: Run, lads! Tis the white terror! Run, run! 
(Panic, and they jump overboard to get away from the Dalek, including Mrs Briggs carrying her baby) 
RICHARDSON: Fools! Get back to your posts! 
RICHARDSON: Get away! 
DALEK: Wait. 
RICHARDSON: Get away! 
DALEK: Do not move. Answer my question. 
RICHARDSON: Come on, sir, come on! Come on. It's the Barbary terror! Come on! You're not going to take my soul. 
(Richardson jumps) 
BRIGGS: Sarah! 
(Briggs takes off his jacket and dives in) 
DALEK 2: Is the earth time machine here? 
DALEK 4: It has not yet been discovered. 
DALEK 2: Join in the search. 
DALEK 3: You search up there. 
SAILOR: No, no! 
DALEK 2: Wait! 
SAILOR: No, no, no, no! Please! No! Please! No! No! 
(And he jumps overboard too. A Dalek also goes over the side by mistake) 
DALEKS: There is no one on the vessel. 
DALEK 2: Come. We must continue our pursuit course. 
(The empty ship Mary Celeste drift on.)

[Tardis]

(Barbara tends to Ian's bump on the head) 
BARBARA: Is that better? 
IAN: Oh, thanks. 
BARBARA: Well, you must admit it was funny. 
IAN: Really? I haven't seen the joke yet, I must say. One thing I did see, by the way. The name of that ship we were on. 
BARBARA: Was what that? 
IAN: The Mary Celeste. 
BARBARA: Mary Celeste? 
IAN: Vicki? Any change, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I altered the curve we were travelling on. For one moment, I dared hoped we'd lost them. They must have detected the change and followed. They're close on our track. 
IAN: But surely we've got our twelve minute lead still? 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid not. It's down to eight. It will be reduced even further after our next landing. We must face the facts. The Daleks are closing in on us.

Episode Four - Journey Into Terror

[House]

(The Tardis materialises in a very cobwebbed and Gothic place. Thunder crashes.) 
BARBARA: I'm not wild about this place. 
IAN: I don't know. Ideal place to fight Daleks, you know. Good stout walls, an upper storey, stairs. Daleks don't like stairs. 
(Ian steps on a stair and it creaks. A bat flies at Barbara.) 
BARBARA: Argh! Look out! 
VICKI: Probably vampires, if you ask me. 
IAN: Oh, charming. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish my child. Vampire bats are only to be found in South America. 
VICKI: Maybe that's where we are. 
DOCTOR: No, I don't think so. Judging by the architecture, I should say Central Europe. 
VICKI: Well, I'm with Barbara. I don't like it here. I think we should go. 
DOCTOR: Yes, in the normal progress of time, my dear, I would say, I would agree with you, but unfortunately we've got to face the Daleks and I think it's essential we take a look around. Let's try upstairs. 
(A creak of a stair and a loud sound of bat wings) 
BARBARA: Well, you got if you want to, but I'm staying near the Tardis. 
VICKI: Me too. 
DOCTOR: Oh, very well, stay where you are. We shan't be long. 
IAN: Shan't be long. 
BARBARA: Well, Vicki, there's really nothing to be scared of. This is just an old house. We mustn't let our imaginations run away with us. 
(Thunder) 
VICKI: No, you're quite right. We mustn't behave like children. 
BARBARA: No, we mustn't. Now come on, let's help the Doctor and look around down here. How about the fireplace? 
(The mantle is carved to make it look like an open mouth. When they get close two stones revolve to look like eyes. They sidle away and find a wooden case.) 
VICKI: Look at that. What do you suppose is inside it? 
(Barbara goes to open it and there is maniacal laughter. She gets the lid open and it is empty. They laugh with relief. Barbara closes the lid and a skeleton drops down in front of them. Screams!)

[Upstairs landing]

IAN: What was that? 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's just thunder, dear boy. 
IAN: No, no, no, the noise before that. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish, there was no noise before that. Come along, come along. 
(An image of a girl passes through Ian) 
IAN: What have you found now? 
DOCTOR: Well, it looks like a laboratory to me. Look at all that equipment down there. 
IAN: Doctor, I think we'd better check on Barbara and Vicki. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense. We've only just left them, dear boy. Now, I must see what's on that table. 
IAN: Must you? I'd really rather not know. 
DOCTOR: You don't mean that, do you? Where's your spirit of adventure? 
IAN: It died a slow and painful death when those bats came out of the rafters. 
DOCTOR: Very well, then, stay where you are. Stay where you are.

[Laboratory]

(Frankenstein's monster rises from his slab and the Doctor retreats back up the stairs to the landing.) 
DOCTOR: I say, I think we'd better check where Vicki and Barbara is! 
(The monster stretches out his arms and Ian follows quickly. The monster lies down again.)

[House]

VICKI: What's that in aid of? 
(Barbara quotes John Donne.) 
BARBARA: And therefore never send to know, for whom the bell tolls. It tolls for thee. Vicki, I feel as though my hair's turned white. 
VICKI: It has as a matter of fact. 
BARBARA: What! 
VICKI: It's all right though, it quite suits you. 
BARBARA: Oh, Vicki! 
DRACULA: Good evening. 
VICKI: Good evening. 
BARBARA: Who are you? 
DRACULA: I am Count Dracula. 
BARBARA: But you can't be, I mean, not, not really. 
(The figure goes back behind a door) 
VICKI: He's gone. Thank goodness for that anyway. 
BARBARA: Vicki, do you think there's something strange going on around here? 
VICKI: Oh. no. 
BARBARA: Why did he go away so quickly? 
(She tries the door) 
BARBARA: Well, I can't seem to open it from this side. Vicki, do you supp . 
(But Vicki's disappeared) 
BARBARA: Vicki? Vicki, where are you? 
(A White Woman on the landing screams something unintelligible. Barbara backs up against the wall and it turns, taking her away. She screams, of course.)

[Corridor]

(The Doctor and Ian are stumbling along with only the light of a small torch to guide them.) 
IAN: Oh, there's one thing about this place, Doctor. It certainly stimulates the phagocytes. The phago? You know, it's uncanny, strange and weird, but it is familiar. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's the word, dear boy, familiar. You know, when I was coming down those stairs, I knew that thing was going to move. I knew it. 
IAN: Oh, did you? I didn't notice you standing around to check your premonition. 
DOCTOR: I never stay where I'm not wanted. Come along.

[Upstairs landing]

DOCTOR: Pre-conditioned. That's it. Pre-conditioned! 
IAN: What are you talking about now? 
DOCTOR: This house is exactly what you would expect in a nightmare. Yes, we're in a world of dreams. Creaking doors, thunder and lightning, monsters and all the things that go bumpety bumpety in the night. 
IAN: With one vital difference, Doctor. This house is real. It exists. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes it exists in the dark recesses of the human minds. Millions of people secretly believing. Think of the immense power of all these people, combined together, makes this place become a reality. 
IAN: Then we're safe. 
DOCTOR: Safe? What on earth do you mean, dear boy? 
IAN: But the Daleks can't touch us here? Not in the human mind. 
DOCTOR: You know, I believe you're right. Yes! The Daleks can never land here! 
(They go down the stairs, pausing at the creaky one at the bottom.)

[House]

IAN: The girls have gone. 
(The Doctor checks in the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: Vicki? Barb? Perhaps they followed us upstairs? 
(So Ian and the Doctor go back upstairs as the Dalek Machine materialises) 
[Dalek time machine]

DALEK 1: The enemy time machine is here. We have caught them. 
DALEK 2: Which planet are we on. 
DALEK 1: Earth. They only changed their geographical and time location. 
DALEK 3: This time they will not elude us. Already the search force is disembarking.

[House]

DALEK 4: Search. I shall remain here in case they return.

[Upstairs landing]

IAN: Where are those girls, Doctor? Well, we would have seen them if they were upstairs. Hadn't we better take another look down there? 
DOCTOR: Had we? 
IAN: Afraid so. 
DOCTOR: Well, after you, dear boy. 
IAN: No, after you. Wait for me.

[Laboratory]

DOCTOR: Shh! Someone's coming. 
IAN: Take cover. 
DALEK: Where are the time travellers? 
IAN: The time travellers? They're 
(Ian drops a grill in front of the Dalek. The monster rises from his slab.) 
DALEK: Do not move. 
DOCTOR: The Tardis, quick! 
(Ian and the Doctor get out of the room.) 
DALEK: Do not move. I am a Dalek. 
(It shoots the monster, but it does not stop it.) 
DALEK: We are invincible. 
(The grill goes up and Frankenstein's monster attacks the Dalek) 
DALEK: Stop! Stop! Ahh!

[House]

VICKI: Oh, there you are! 
IAN: Vicki. 
DOCTOR: Where have you both been? 
VICKI: We climbed through a secret tunnel straight down 
IAN: There's no time to tell us now. The Daleks are here. 
BARBARA: Daleks? 
IAN: Yes. 
VICKI: Look out! 
DALEK 4: Halt! You will be exterminated. 
DRACULA: Good evening. 
IAN: Quick, into the Tardis while we've still got a chance! 
VICKI: Look out, he'll kill you! You'll be killed! 
(The Dalek shoots Dracula) 
DRACULA: I am Count Dracula. 
(Vicki is trapped by Daleks as the Tardis dematerialises.) 
DALEK 4: Eradicate her. 
(The monster arrives, now dressed in a suit instead of bandages, and starts to rip the top off a Dalek.) 
DALEK 4: Obliterate. 
DRACULA: I am Count Dracula. Don't go. Don't go. Don't go. Don't go. Don't go. 
(The monster throws a Dalek across the room, the White Woman wails, and the Dalek's weapons have no effect on any of them.) 
(Vicki runs into the Dalek time machine) 
DALEK 5: Embark at once. 
DALEK 4: At once! 
DALEK 5: Yes! Embark! 
DALEK 4: Embark! At once! 
DALEKS: Embark! Embark! Embark! Embark!

[Tardis]

IAN: This game of hide and seek through time is wearing a little thin now. 
DOCTOR: Game? 
IAN: What an extraordinary place? More spooks to the square mile than the Tower of London. You know that theory of yours 
DOCTOR: Theory, my dear boy? Fact. I am convinced that that house was neither time nor space. We were lodged for a period in an area of human thought. 
IAN: And were the Daleks lodging too? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't want to enter into it. A discussion with him! Oh! 
IAN: Have it your own way. I think there's a much simpler explanation. 
(A ticket booth by the House says 'Festival of Ghana 1996, cancelled by Peking, Frankenstein's House of Horrors, price $10') 
(Later) 
IAN: Well, how's this box of tricks coming along, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, necessarily crude, dear boy. I haven't time to perfect anything. 
IAN: When's it going to be operational, eh? 
DOCTOR: You know just as much about that as I do. 
IAN: Oh Doctor, we can't go on like this, can we? We've given them the slip once or twice but sooner or later we're going to have to settle with them. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I quite agree with you. Running away won't solve our problem. But as soon as we've reached the final decision to stand and fight, there'll be no turning back. It'll either be them or us. Hmm? 
BARBARA: Here we are. 
(Barbara brings drinks) 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, very welcome. 
IAN: Thanks. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
BARBARA: Where's Vicki? 
DOCTOR: But I thought she was with you?

[Dalek time machine]

DALEK 3: We are locked in pursuit course. 
DALEK 2: Calculate destination of enemy time machine. 
DALEK 3: Report. 
DALEK 1: The enemy is approaching the planet Mechanus. 
DALEK 2: Contact Skaro. Report our destination to the Dalek Supreme. 
DALEK 3: I obey. 
DALEK 2: Is the reproducer repaired? 
DALEK 4: We await your orders. 
DALEK 2: Manufacture will commence at once.

[Reproduction chamber room]

DALEK 2: Which if the four humans is to be reproduced? 
DALEK 4: Their leader, the one they call Doctor. Is the reproducer programmed? 
DALEK 3: All is in readiness. Photo images and relevant data are in the computer. The humanoid will be completed by the time we arrive at our destination. 
DALEK 4: Excellent. Commence operations, then assemble at cell renovator chamber. 
DALEK 2: We obey! 
DALEK 3: Of course. 
(The Daleks leave and Vicki comes out from behind the door. She fiddles with a communications panel.) 
VICKI: Tardis. Hello, Tardis? Come in please. Over. (static) Hello, Tardis. Doctor? Somebody, please help me. Get me out of this. Tardis! Tardis! 
(She goes to the reproducter where a duplicate of the Doctor is just visible)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: It's my fault. All my own stupid fault. I shouldn't have moved the Tardis. I have should have checked up first to make sure that everybody was inside. I shall never forgive myself. 
IAN: Oh, no Doctor, don't blame yourself. We're all equally to blame. I was convinced she was on board. 
BARBARA: Isn't there anything we can do? Is there no way of going back for Vicki? 
DOCTOR: You don't think I'd be standing here doing nothing do you, if there were? We're helpless, and you of all people should know that the Tardis can't land in the same time and place twice! 
IAN: We've never stayed long enough in any one place to repair the time mechanism of the Tardis. If we did, is there a chance of going back for Vicki? 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course, it's possible, but it might take months, even years. 
BARBARA: But Doctor, if we all worked together, if Ian and I helped you, surely it's worth a try? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear, I know it's worth a try but you don't think the Daleks are going to sit back and allow us to tinker do you? They're right on our tracks. Their one aim is to destroy. 
IAN: The Dalek time machine. Of course. Doctor, I've got it. We can't go back for Vicki in the Tardis, but we can in the Daleks own time machine. 
DOCTOR: Do you mean capture their machine? 
IAN: Why not? 
BARBARA: Well, that would take some doing. 
IAN: It's the only chance we've got, otherwise we'll never see Vicki again. 
DOCTOR: If we can only pull it off. 
BARBARA: Doctor, we have nothing to lose and now we have even more reason to stop and fight. 
IAN: What do you say, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I say yes. Yes, yes! Our next landing will be our battle ground and we shall fight. We shall fight to the death!

[Reproduction chamber room]

VICKI: Tardis? Somebody hear me. Tardis! Tardis!

[Dalek time machine]

DALEK 1: Report position of enemy machine. 
DALEK 2: It's movement through time is ending. 
DALEK 3: It is approaching the planet Mechanus. 
DALEK 2: How long before we reach them? 
DALEK 4: Er, er, in earth time, er, four minutes. 
DALEK 1: There is much to do.

[Reproduction chamber room]

DALEK 1: Is the humanoid robot complete? 
DALEK 3: The computer is feeding its memory cells with data. 
DALEK 2: Physical characteristics are completed. Energy cells fully charged. 
DALEK 4: Micro-units containing personality and vocal mannerisms are charged. 
DALEK 1: Prepare to activate. Activate the robot. 
(Vicki watches as a near-duplicate of the Doctor opens the chamber door)

[Tardis]

IAN: Ah, looks swampy. 
DOCTOR: Yes, all to the good, my boy. This sort of terrain is going to make it very difficult for the Daleks. 
IAN: Yes. Well, we won't have long to explore, Doctor, before the Daleks arrive so lets get moving. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you are perfectly correct, perfectly correct. However, it doesn't matter about the appearances. It's quite safe to go outside. 
IAN: Good. 
(The Doctor opens the doors) 
BARBARA: Just look at that vegetation. 
IAN: Yes. Just as though it were alive. 
DOCTOR: Alive! Yes.

[Reproduction chamber room]

DALEK 1: Success! Paramount success! It is impossible to distinguish from the original. 
DALEK 4: We have landed on the planet Mechanus. 
DALEK 1: Operate ramp control. Activate robot power source. 
(The robot steps out of the chamber) 
DALEK 1: Your orders are understood? You will infiltrate and kill. 
DALEKS: Infiltrate and kill! 
ROBO-DOC: Understand? Of course I understand, my dear fellow. Don't fuss so. I am to infiltrate and kill. Infiltrate and kill.

Episode Five - The Death of Doctor Who

[Jungle]

(It's a very alien jungle, with giant toadstools quivering) 
BARBARA: What is it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not sure, young lady. Is it a plant or some kind of fungus? 
(The Doctor pokes it with his walking stick and it collapses briefly) 
IAN: Ah! A living fungoid, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think this is the moment when discretion is the better part of valour. Let's get back into the ship. 
(But another fungoid is now blocking them) 
DOCTOR: How did that get there? 
BARBARA: They're moving. They're closing in on us! 
IAN: (Ian hits one) It stings! 
(There's a bright light) 
DOCTOR: Well, our friends here obviously don't like the light. 
BARBARA: Well, thank goodness for that. 
IAN: No, but who switched the lights on? Who put them there in the first place? 
BARBARA: What does it matter so long as they stay on? 
DOCTOR: Well, it does suggest that there are other creatures on this planet. Yes, creatures of intelligence. 
IAN: Hey, come over here! Look. Look, you see? The lights, they form a sort of 
DOCTOR: Yes! 
IAN: Corridor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, its a kind of pattern. Yes, you're quite right, my boy, a corridor. 
IAN: Doctor, this could be an ideal place to fight those Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, well let's follow it. This way.

[Outside the Dalek time machine]

(Elsewhere, the Daleks have landed) 
DALEK 1: This is the planet Mechanus. All forms of life are to be treated as hostile. 
DALEK 2: Understood. Pass the order. All forms of life to be destroyed on contact. 
DALEK 1: I obey. 
DALEK 2: Is the humanoid robot standing by? 
DALEK 3: It awaits your orders. 
DALEK 2: Our enemies are moving through the jungle. You are to join them. 
ROBO-DOC: Infiltrate, separate and kill. Yes, yes. I understand. Well, the sooner I get started, the sooner I shall accomplish my mission. 
(Robo-Doc leaves) 
DALEK 2: We shall follow it as escort. Advise all units. 
(The Daleks trundle off, and Vicki carefully sneaks out of their time machine)

[Jungle]

BARBARA: Just a minute. 
(She's got something in her shoe) 
DOCTOR [OC]: Come along, come along. 
IAN: All right? 
BARBARA: Yep, fine. 
(Robo-Doc tags along behind them whilst Vicki plays dodge-the-Dalek somewhere else until she is 'captured' by a fungoid which hides her)

[Cave]

DOCTOR: We seem to have come to the end of our corridor of lights. 
IAN: Yes. Let me go first. 
DOCTOR: Any Daleks? 
IAN: No, nothing. It's empty. 
DOCTOR: Let's take a closer look. 
IAN: Strange place. Now why would anyone construct a complicated system of lights to lead directly to a cave like this? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not quite sure, dear boy, but there must be a reason for it. Yes, like everything else in the universe, there is a reason for it. 
(Ian puts down the equipment he's been carrying) 
DOCTOR: Oh, do be careful what you're doing with that. 
BARBARA: Hey, over here. Look what I've found. 
(A long, thin ornate stick or tube) 
IAN: Well, what do you make of that, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I should imagine it's some kind of weapon. Just hold that a minute. 
DOCTOR: Ah, cha, cha, cha, not so close! (He presses something on the thicker end and the thin end lights up) 
DOCTOR: Well, that's ingenious, isn't it? 
BARBARA: Ah, it's designed to scare off those fungoid things we saw in the swamp. 
DOCTOR: Very good, my dear, very good. 
BARBARA: Well, Doctor, with this and that we are ready for the Daleks. Come on. 
IAN: She's right, you know. 
BARBARA: As they come down the flare path we can pick them off one by one. 
(There's a noise outside) 
DOCTOR: Just, just, just, shh, shh, shh. Just a moment now. May I speak? There's something I haven't told you, dear boy. We cannot use this machine in an enclosed area, otherwise we shall all go up in smoke. 
BARBARA: But Doctor, the Daleks will find this flare path and we'll be trapped here. 
DOCTOR: That may be 
IAN: Let's put the lights out. 
DOCTOR: Now you're talking common sense. Yes, let's find the cable, shall we?

[Jungle]

(Vicki has found the Tardis) 
VICKI: Doctor? Doctor, it's me, let me in! It's me! 
(A fungoid sneaks up on her and she runs away again until she finds the lit path and follows it)

[Cave]

BARBARA: Over here. I've found it. 
IAN: Good. Where? Ah. 
DOCTOR: You're quite safe, it's well insulated. 
IAN: Yeah. 
(Ian tries to prise the junction box open) 
IAN: It's tough. 
(On the path, Vicki screams in despair) 
IAN: There's someone out there! 
BARBARA: That noise! That noise, it was it was 
IAN: Come on, Doctor! 
BARBARA: Doctor, that noise! It was 
DOCTOR: Watch the machine. Watch the machine. 
(Ian and the Doctor run out, Robo-Doc pops up and heads to the cave)

[Jungle]

DALEK 1: The light source has vanished. 
DALEK 2: Patrols will continue to advance eastward. Perceptors register much movement in that area. 
(A fungoid covers the Dalek's eye-stalk) 
DALEK 1: Alert! Alert! Alert! 
(It gets free and kills the fungoid) 
DALEK 2: The patrol will continue. 
DALEK 1: Have I sustained damage. 
DALEK 2: No. The patrol will continue. 
(On the formerly lit path, the Doctor and Ian find the unconscious Vicki) 
IAN: Vicki! She must have smuggled herself aboard the Daleks time machine. So, they've arrived.

[Cave]

(Robo-Doc enters) 
BARBARA: Doctor. You were quick. 
ROBO-DOC: Oh, was I? 
BARBARA: Who was it? 
ROBO-DOC: Oh, nobody, I, er 
BARBARA: What is it? Where's Ian? 
ROBO-DOC: Barbara, my dear, Chesterton is dead. 
BARBARA: Dead? 
ROBO-DOC: The creatures caught him. I could do nothing. 
BARBARA: But, are you sure? Are you certain that he's not just hurt? 
ROBO-DOC: Come with me. Perhaps you can help. Come along, come along. Hurry.

[Jungle]

(Ian is carrying Vicki) 
IAN: About another twenty yards, Doctor, I think. 
DOCTOR: You know Chesterton, they have an extraordinary range of movement, extraordinary. 
IAN: Yes. All I'm interested in right now is getting into that cave where we'll be safe.

[Cave]

IAN: Barbara? Barbara, we've found her. Barbara? Where is she? 
DOCTOR: Take a look outside, my boy. I'll look after Vicki. 
IAN [OC]: Barbara? Barbara? 
(Vicki starts to wake) 
DOCTOR: Oh, come along child, you're all right. Come along. Come along, my dear. Come along. 
(Vicki pushes him away and tries to run) 
DOCTOR: My dear girl. What on earth is wrong with you? 
VICKI: No, no, no! 
IAN: Doctor! She's nowhere to be. Vicki, what is it? 
VICKI: Ian. I thought. When I. Oh, it must be the Doctor or you wouldn't be with him. 
IAN: What are you saying, Vicki? 
VICKI: I'm sorry I behaved like that, but when I first woke up, I thought you must be the robot. 
DOCTOR: Robot? My dear, you have haven't got a temperature, have you? 
IAN: You come and sit down, Vicki. 
VICKI: There is a robot! The Daleks made it exactly like you. 
DOCTOR: A robot exactly like me? 
VICKI: Every detail. I heard them giving it orders. They made it to infiltrate our group. They told it to infiltrate and kill. 
DOCTOR: So that's it! This is very serious, Chesterton. Barbara would never have left here unless, unless you or I told her to go. 
IAN: They've got her. Barbara! Barbara! Barbara! 
(Ian dashes out) 
DOCTOR: You all right, child? Come along!

[Jungle]

BARBARA: Is this where you left him? 
ROBO-DOC: No. 
BARBARA: Oh, come on Doctor, We must find him. You do dawdle so! 
IAN [OC]: Barbara! Barbara! 
BARBARA: Ian! He's all right, Doctor. He's all right! 
(Robo-Doc attacks her with his walking stick. Her screams bring Ian but Robo-Doc elbows him in the stomach and gets away) 
BARBARA: What's the matter with him? Why did he try to kill me? 
IAN: It isn't the Doctor. It's a robot. 
BARBARA: A robot? 
IAN: Yes. A robot the Daleks made. Come on, Barbara, let's, let's find the others. 
VICKI: I can't see any sign of Ian. I think he must have gone further than we thought. Barbara! 
IAN: Okay, Vicki. 
VICKI: Where's the Doctor? 
(enter Doctor and Robo-Doc) 
ROBO-DOC: Don't just stand there, Chesterton. That's the robot. 
DOCTOR: Robot? Robot? Me? You're the imposter. He is the imposter! 
ROBO-DOC: Then prove it, my dear fellow, prove it. Then we shall all believe you. 
DOCTOR: I don't have to. 
ROBO-DOC: You mean you can't. 
DOCTOR: Why, you! 
(The Doctor raises his stick, and Vicki, Barbara and Robo-Doc get out of the way as Ian confronts him) 
IAN: Put that stick down! 
DOCTOR: Get out of my way. 
IAN: And if I won't? 
DOCTOR: I shall give you the same treatment. 
(The Doctor and Ian struggle for his walking stick) 
ROBO-DOC: Watch him, Chesterton. Watch him! 
IAN: You still you insist you're the real Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, what does it matter what I say now. 
ROBO-DOC: Chesterton, now's your chance. Destroy it. Destroy it with a rock! Susan, don't look this way, it'll be nasty. 
BARBARA: Ian, don't. That's the Doctor! 
IAN: What? 
VICKI: This is the robot! This is the robot! 
(Ian throws the rock at Robo-Doc and misses. The Doctor trips up Robo-Doc then they fence with their walking sticks.) 
DOCTOR: (Dalek tones) Stop! Do not kill! 
(Robo-Doc freezes, the Doctor reaches in and pulls out wires, killing it) 
DOCTOR: Hmm, I must get a Doctor.

[Outside the Tardis]

DALEK 1: The enemy time machine. With this in our control, they cannot escape. What is that noise? 
DALEK 2: Hostile plant life! Destroy! Destroy! 
(A fungoid covers Dalek 1) 
DALEK 1: You destroy! 
(It does) 
DALEK 3: There is no trace of the humans. 
DALEK 2: Or the robot? 
DALEK 3: No. Contact has been lost. 
DALEK 1: We will organise a full scale search of the jungle at daybreak.

[Cave entrance]

IAN: Thing's don't look too good, do they, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No, they're not very encouraging, dear boy. 
IAN: Oh, we've got one consolation. We're all together again. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but I don't mind admitting, I feel rather exhausted after all that experience. 
IAN: Why don't you go down and have a rest? Go on. I'll stay out here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I don't suppose we can do much in this light. 
IAN: No. You know it's been dark ever since we landed on this planet. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, we'll give it a few hours. It might get lighter. I think I'll take your advice. But I shan't sleep.

[Cave]

(The girls are already asleep on the floor when the Doctor lies down. Ian starts to doze too. A metallic lens descends and looks them over before going back up again) 
(The Doctor is woken by the sunlight)

[Cave entrance]

DOCTOR: Chesterton! 
(Ian wakes) 
DOCTOR: Get up, get up, get up! 
IAN: What's the matter? 
DOCTOR: Look here! 
(A white city sits on an elegant array of columns)

[Cave]

DOCTOR: I say, you two in there! Come along, wake up, wake up! Come out here quickly!

[Cave entrance]

VICKI: Wow, beautiful! 
IAN: Yes. To think that was up there all last night and we never knew. 
DOCTOR: Quite so. And that is where we've got to get to. 
IAN: Yes, you bet. 
DOCTOR: Have you got that thingummybob? 
BARBARA: I'll get it. 
DOCTOR: Come along, come along, let's go. Come on. 
VICKI: Look. 
IAN: Daleks coming straight for us. 
BARBARA: Over there. There's two more of them. Come on, Vicki, quick!

[Cave]

IAN: What do we do now? 
DOCTOR: Well, we must clear this cave as soon as possible, otherwise we can't work that device. 
IAN: How? 
VICKI: That cliff above, can we climb out that way? 
IAN: No, it's impossible. Its sheer. They'd pick us off like flies. 
VICKI: It's the only way. What do we do? 
IAN: I've got it. The Doctor will have to go out there as the robot. He could put them off the scent. 
BARBARA: Are you mad? 
IAN: Why? 
BARBARA: The Daleks must know that the robot's dead. They controlled it. 
IAN: Why? You can't be sure of that. 
VICKI: Anyway, it might confuse them just long enough to enable us to get away. 
BARBARA: Look, it would be sheer suicide. 
IAN: Yeah, perhaps you're right Barbara. Well, Doctor, what? Doctor! 
BARBARA: Doctor!

[Outside the Tardis]

DALEK 2: They are trapped in the rock face. 
DALEK 1: Attack formation! Attack formation! Attack formation! Attack formation! Attack! 
DALEK 2: Section four will enter the cave. Do not deviate. 
DALEK 3: We obey. 
DALEK 2: Section two will circle the cave. Take a position amongst the boulders and cut off any attempt to escape. 
DALEK 4: We obey. 
DALEK 2: We will take no prisoners. Eliminate on sight. 
DALEKS: We obey. 
DALEK 2: Move to position. On my command, advance and attack. 
DALEK 5: Align and advance! 
DALEK 6: Advance and attack! 
DALEKS: Attack and destroy! Destroy and rejoice!

[Cave]

DALEK 1 [OC]: Halt! You will be exterminated! 
DOCTOR [OC]: I have infiltrated and killed. We may now return to Skaro. 
DALEK 1 [OC]: You lie. You are not the robot. 
IAN: Doctor! 
(The sound of Dalek weapons as the Doctor comes back in) 
BARBARA: Doctor, that was a foolish thing to do. 
DOCTOR: They know now who's who. Give me that machine. All of you, get against the wall. I'm going to see what I can do with this. 
(As the Doctor puts down his contraption a part of the cave wall drops and a large round-ish metal device is revealed. It speaks as though it's gargling.) 
MECHANOID: Eight hundred thirty Mechanoid. English input. Enter. 
DALEKS [OC]: Advance. Advance and attack! Attack and destroy! Destroy and rejoice! 
IAN: You heard what the gentleman said. Let's go! 
(DALEKS [OC]: Attack! Attack! Destroy!

Episode Six- The Planet of Decision

[Lift]

(They all get into the area with the mechanoid and the cave wall closes.) 
VICKI: We're going up. 
BARBARA: Yeah, it's a lift. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you got us out of a nasty situation there. I supposed you'd like to know who we are and why we're here? 
IAN: You're not getting through to him, Doctor, you're not getting through. 
BARBARA: Doctor, ask him where he's taking us. 
IAN: He's taking us up to the city, obviously.

[Cave]

DALEK 1: They have escaped. 
DALEK 2: Not possible. Perceptor readings indicated they were here. 
DALEK 1: Subject walls to seismic detector tests. 
(Dalek 2 holds out the device) 
DALEK 1: It is required that we penetrate this wall. Section four will return to the time craft for the electrode unit. 
DALEKS: We obey.

[Lift]

(The top of the mechanoid opens and an antenna briefly pops out) 
IAN: We must have arrived.

[Approach ramp]

(The mechanoid leads the way out of the lift) 
MECHANOID: Stop. Follow. follow. 
VICKI: Look at it! 
DOCTOR: If's fantastic! 
BARBARA: I've never seen anything like it. It's huge! 
(The mechanoid leads the way across a cantilevered walkway)

[City]

(They meet a second mechanoid, and there is some electronic conversation before it leaves) 
MECHANOID: English. Enter. Enter. Zero. Stop. 
IAN: Enter, enter, zero, stop? What does he mean? 
BARBARA: It means enter, enter, zero, stop. 
VICKI: (imitates the mechanoid) Tttthhhaaannnk yyyooouuu! 
BARBARA: Vicki!

[Room]

(The door slides shut behind them) 
BARBARA: What an extraordinary looking thing. 
(Ropes, and a set of stairs) 
IAN: Ha, looks like a monkey's perch. 
(They bounce on the bed or couch) 
VICKI: Oh, not bad, eh? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well I don't like it. 
VICKI: Why not? It's clean, it's comfortable, the robots seem quite friendly. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, robot's. But haven't you noticed something very singular about this place? 
VICKI: Like what? 
DOCTOR: We've only seen robots. No animal life, human or otherwise.? 
IAN: That's very true, Doctor. 
(A bearded man comes down the stairs. It's Peter Purves, not playing a comic Alabama hayseed this time.) 
STEVEN: Stay where you are! You real? 
IAN: Who are you? 
STEVEN: You are real. From Earth? 
IAN: Yes. Who are you? 
STEVEN: From Earth, that couldn't have happened! I worked out the odds. Two thousand to one against. Hey, I supposed they realised I was on my way back when. Well, who won the wars? Look, I'm Steven Taylor. Flight red fifty. 
DOCTOR: Well, we've learned something. His name. 
BARBARA: Yes, Steven Taylor. 
STEVEN: Say that again. 
BARBARA: Steven Taylor? 
STEVEN: Steven Taylor. 
(He throws a small toy panda to Barbara.) STEVEN: That's my mascot, Hi-fi. 
BARBARA: Oh! Hi, Fi, I'm Barbara. 
VICKI: I'm Vicki. 
IAN: Ian Chesterton. 
STEVEN: Ian Chesterton. 
IAN: This is the Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm glad to know you, Steven Taylor. 
STEVEN: Well, this is great! I mean, it's ridiculous. I'm lost for words. I thought if ever I met anyone again, I wouldn't stop talking for a week! 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, you haven't. How long have you been here? 
STEVEN: As far as I can make out, about two years. 
VICKI: Two years? Alone? 
STEVEN: Well, yes. Apart from those fungus things. 
DOCTOR: You mean there's no other human beings here on this planet? 
STEVEN: No, nothing except the Mechanoids. 
BARBARA: Where do they come from, do you know? 
STEVEN: You don't know? But this is Mechanus. 
IAN: Sorry? 
STEVEN: Look, about fifty years ago Earth decided to colonise this planet. Well, it landed a rocket full of robots programmed to clear landing sites, get everything ready for the first immigrants. 
VICKI: And they didn't arrive? 
STEVEN: No. See, Earth got involved in interplanetary wars. I suppose this place was forgotten. 
IAN: Fifty years ago? But surely these robots'd be worn out by now. They'd have run down. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no, they're programmed to do their own repairs. 
BARBARA: But if you're waiting for people from Earth, well, why not us? 
VICKI: Yes, we could be the immigrants. 
STEVEN: You've got to know their code. I've been spending two years trying to break it. Two years. I crashed, you see, out there in the jungle and wandered around for days trying to avoid those fungus things. Of course then the Mechanoids captured me. 
BARBARA: Captured? Do you mean you're a prisoner. 
STEVEN: Well do you think I'd stay here otherwise? I'm just like you. We're all prisoners. Help yourself to a piece of eternity. 
IAN: Now, just a minute! There are five of us now. Surely we can do something? We can fight our way out. 
STEVEN: Look, at the first sign of violence towards them, the Mechanoids destroy. 
(Louvres are opened.) 
STEVEN: Now what's this? What are they playing at? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. We're being held here as specimens. 
VICKI: What, like something in a zoo? 
STEVEN: Yes, Vicki. Exactly like a zoo. Only we're the specimens that are on display. Aren't we, my fat little darlings?!

[Cave]

DALEK 1: Electrode unit ready. 
DALEK 2: Operate. Increase power. Conveyor descending. 
DALEK 1: By taking the humans, the Mechons have forced us to take action against them. We invade. 
DALEK 3: Skaro reports they have many powerful weapons. We may sustain damage. 
DALEK 1: The orders of the Dalek Supreme will be obeyed! The humans will be destroyed! The Mechons will not be permitted to stand in our way! We attack! We attack! 
DALEKS: Attack! Attack! Attack! Attack! Attack! Attack! Attack! 
(The Daleks get into the lift)

[City]

BARBARA: Oh, go away! Leave us alone, can't you? 
(The louvres shut) 
MECHANOID: Threat. Stop.

[Room]

STEVEN: There's only one thing to do to keep yourself sane, that's to make things. I built this. 
BARBARA: Did you? 
STEVEN: All my own work. 
BARBARA: Where does it lead? 
STEVEN: Up to the roof. 
IAN: The roof? Well, why don't we get out that way? 
STEVEN: Look, don't think I haven't thought about it myself, but that roof's fifteen hundred feet above ground level. 
BARBARA: We've got to get out. 
STEVEN: Yes, that's what I thought at first. You'll soon find out you're better off here than out there in the jungle. 
IAN: We don't give up so easily. We're going to get out of here. The first thing we're going to do is, I'm going to have a look up here. 
STEVEN: Look, I'm with you, of course, but what happens when we get down to the ground? 
DOCTOR: We make our way back to my spaceship. 
STEVEN: Your spaceship? Is it serviceable? 
DOCTOR: I certainly hope so. 
STEVEN: But I thought. You see, I assumed you'd crashed. 
IAN: You coming, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm coming, dear boy, I'm coming. Oh, tell me, young man. What happens if these Mechanoids see us up there? 
STEVEN: There aren't any. We're allowed to go up here anytime for light, exercise. There are no guards. 
DOCTOR: Good, good! 
STEVEN: Go on, I'll show you. 
DOCTOR: Splendid.

[Rooftop]

STEVEN: See? I told you, no guards. I'll go and tell the girls. 
DOCTOR: Yes, wait a minute, dear boy. 
(Ian is standing right on the edge) 
DOCTOR: Chesterton, be careful! 
IAN: Yes, I see why the Mechanoids don't mind us coming up here. 
There are coils of thick cable.) 
IAN: Doctor, what do you make of this? 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's some power aerial, I suppose. 
IAN: Doctor, I've got it. We can get down to the ground with this. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, if we can break it. 
IAN: Well, there's a junction box over here. A few good pulls, this'd come away. Come on, let's get the others. 
DOCTOR: Yes, come along, come along!

[Room]

BARBARA: Well? Any chance? 
IAN: Yes, but it's going to be dangerous. 
STEVEN: What, do you mean the cable? 
IAN: Yeah, do you think there's enough? 
STEVEN: Maybe. I thought of trying it myself once, but I couldn't have managed it on my own. 
BARBARA: Hey, wait a minute. Where's this leading us? 
IAN: Down to the ground. 
BARBARA: We climb down fifteen hundred feet of cable? 
VICKI: I'm not very good on heights. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it sounds rather risky. 
BARBARA: I agree. 
STEVEN: The cable's strong. It wouldn't break. 
IAN: I think it's the only chance we've got. 
BARBARA: Well, I don't like it. 
VICKI: Look!

[Outside the room]

DALEK 2: Where are the space travellers? 
MECHANOID: Zero.

[Room]

VICKI: Daleks. 
IAN: Well, that settles it. 
DOCTOR: Go on, go on. 
IAN: On the roof, quick! 
DOCTOR: Go on! Now, I think we'll leave them something to remember us by. 
(He switches on his device, grabs his walking stick and goes up the stairs)

[Outside the room]

DALEK 2: You will be annihilated! 
(The Mechanoid is shot, and rolls away)

[Room]

DALEK 4: Dispatch a section to the roof area. 
DALEK 2: I obey. 
(Bang! goes the Doctor's device.) 
DALEK 4: Am exterminated! Am exterminated! Argh! 
(A Mechanoid grabs the other Dalek in it's curved arms) 
DALEK 2: Totally immobilised. 
MECHANOID: Trapped. Trapped.

[Rooftop]

(The adults pull the cable from the fuse box) 
IAN: I think we've fused it. 
DOCTOR: Never mind about that. Let's get on with this. Come along. Quickly! Get that. Come on. 
STEVEN: That's all right. There's plenty of it. 
(Vicki is looking down on the trees, and wobbling.) 
BARBARA: (grabbing her. Vicki! Vicki, come and help us. 
STEVEN: We're going to have to lower her. 
IAN: Vicki Vicki, listen to me. We'll tie the cable round you and lower you to the ground. 
VICKI: No! 
IAN: You'll be quite safe. 
VICKI: No! I can't. 
DOCTOR: Vicki, my dear, I'm going to blindfold you. You won't be able to see a thing. You'll be quite safe. Now come along. 
VICKI: I can't. No! 
DOCTOR: Now come along, child. Pull your self together 
VICKI: Don't! No! 
DOCTOR: Vicki, come along, come along! 
VICKI: I 
IAN: Quick, lift up your arms. 
(He puts the loop of cable around her.) 
VICKI: No. No. 
IAN: Now hold onto this, Vicki. 
VICKI: No I can't. 
IAN: There, that's it. 
VICKI: Please! I can't! 
IAN: It's all right. 
VICKI: Please let me out. 
IAN: Right. 
BARBARA: I know you'll be safe. All right? 
VICKI: No, please, let me stay. 
BARBARA: Look, let go. 
DOCTOR: Come along 
VICKI: No no no! 
BARBARA: Hold on to this. 
VICKI: No! No! 
BARBARA: Okay. 
(They lower Vicki over the edge.) 
DOCTOR: Good gracious! The place is on fire! 
STEVEN: But, Hi-fi! I've got to get the mascot! 
DOCTOR: No, Steven! 
IAN: Steven, what are you doing?! 
(Barbara is almost pulled over the edge. The Doctor and Ian grab her legs.) IAN: Get hold of her! What are you doing! 
DOCTOR: Come back!

[Room]

(Steven dodges a Dalek in the smoke.)

[City]

MECHANOID: Follow Mechanoid. Attack. System. 
DALEK 1: To defy Daleks is death! 
DALEK 2: We await commands! 
DALEK 3: The operation will proceed at once. 
MECHANOID: Defend. Threat. 
DALEK 1: They must be destroyed. 
MECHANOID: Escalate output. 
DALEK 1: Exterminate them! Exterminate! 
MECHANOID: Attack here. 
DALEK 1: Annihilate! 
MECHANOID: Fire. 
(The Mechanoid's flame thrower is no match for the Daleks, and it goes BOOM. More Mechanoids arrive to grab Daleks and pin them in whilst the smoke gets thicker. Machine versus machine and the Mechanoids are winning.)

[Jungle]

BARBARA: Vicki. Vicki, are you all right? 
VICKI: Yes. Yes, thanks. How about the others? 
BARBARA: They're fine. Now, Vicki, remember the Doctor's device? Well it worked! The city's on fire. Look, you can see! 
DOCTOR: Vicki, my child, are you all right? 
VICKI: Yes, I'm fine. 
DOCTOR: Come along, let's get back to the Tardis. 
VICKI: What about Steven? Where is he? 
BARBARA: Steven went back to the city. 
VICKI: What for? 
DOCTOR: We don't know, my child, and his chances of survival in this furnace are utterly 
IAN: Quick! That cable's on fire and the whole buildings collapsing! 
VICKI: No, we can't!

[Outside the Dalek Time machine]

IAN [OC]: Halt! You will be exterminated! 
(Ian comes out, holding his nose.) 
IAN: Exterminated! 
BARBARA: Oh, Ian! 
IAN: Doctor, it's empty. You've done it again! You've beaten them! 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, I could kiss you! 
BARBARA: Don't waste it on him, kiss me instead! 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'd be delighted! You know, this must be an extremely advanced machine. Wherever we went, it followed us with such great precision and accuracy. You could travel anywhere in it. 
VICKI: It's huge inside, you know, just like the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Of course, my dear, I'd forgotten. You've taken a trip in it. 
VICKI: Shall I show you round? 
DOCTOR: My dear, I shall be delighted. 
IAN: After you! 
(The Doctor and Vicki go inside.) 
BARBARA: Ian, do you realise we could get home? 
IAN: Home? Yes. Do you want to? 
BARBARA: Yes. I never realised it before. 
IAN: Neither did I. We may never get another chance. 
BARBARA: Do you think we could work it? 
IAN: Well, would the Doctor take us? 
BARBARA: Let's ask him.

[Jungle]

STEVEN: Doctor! 
(Clutching Hi-Fi, Steven nearly gets caught by a fungoid.)

[Jungle]

DOCTOR [OC]: I don't want to know! I want none of this! I've never heard such nonsense in my life! You'll end up as a couple of burnt cinders, flying around in space. You idiots! You are absolute idiots! 
BARBARA: We are not idiots! We want to go home! 
IAN: Yes, home! I want to sit in a pub and drink a pint of beer again. I want to walk in a park and watch a cricket match. Above all, I want to belong somewhere, do something, instead of this aimless drifting around in space. 
DOCTOR: Aimless? I've tried for two years to get you both home! 
IAN: Well, you haven't been very successful, have you? 
DOCTOR: How dare you, young man. How dare you, sir! I didn't even invite you into the ship in the first place. You both thrust yourselves upon me! 
BARBARA: Oh, Doctor, stop it! 
DOCTOR: Oh, for heavens sake, I've never heard such nonsense. 
BARBARA: Look, I know we thrust ourselves upon you, but we've through a great deal together since then. And all we've been through will remain with us always. It'll probably be the most exciting part of my life. Look, Doctor, we're different people, and now we have a chance to go home. We want to take that chance. Will you help us work that machine? 
DOCTOR: No! No! I will not aid and abet suicide. 
IAN: Oh, he's as stubborn as a mule. 
VICKI: Doctor? Doctor, you've got to let them go if they want to. They want to be back in their own time. 
DOCTOR: Don't you want to go with them, child? 
VICKI: What for? What would I want to be back in their time for? I want to be with you. Doctor, you've got to help them. 
DOCTOR: Don't you realise, child, the enormous risks? 
VICKI: But it's up to them. 
DOCTOR: Do you both realise the enormous risks? 
IAN: We do. We still want to go. 
BARBARA: Please, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Very well, follow me. But you must follow my instructions implicitly, understood? Implicitly! You will both have about a fifty-fifty chance. Follow me, come along. 
(Later, Vicki and the Doctor come out, and the Dalek machine dematerialises)

[Street]

(Ian comes out of a garage near a tube station. The car tax disc expiry date is December 1965) 
IAN: Barbara, we made it. 
BARBARA: I don't believe it! 
IAN: London 1965! 
BARBARA: Hey, we're two years out. 
IAN: Oh, what's two years amongst friends? We're home! I'll just go and press that button. 
(He goes inside and something starts beeping) 
IAN: Run! 
(KaBOOM) 
IAN: Well, that's put paid to the Dalek's time travelling for a while. 
BARBARA: It'll give the Doctor a breather anyway. 
IAN: Yes. I wonder where he is right now? 
BARBARA: Hey, Doctor, wherever you are. 
IAN: Shh! There's someone coming. 
BARBARA: Goodbye, Doctor! Thanks for the ride! 
IAN: It was fun Doctor! Goodbye! 
(A series of stills to show our two explorers getting reacquainted with the Capital - Trafalgar Square and the pigeons, the Embankment, a blue Police Box, Regent Street)

[Bus]

BARBARA: Oh, I enjoyed that. 
IAN: Yes, so did I. 
CONDUCTOR [OC]: Fares please. 
IAN: Oh, it's great to be back. Nothing seems to have changed. 
BARBARA: Oh, you wait till we get back to Coal Hill. Hey! 
CONDUCTOR [OC]: Any more fares please? 
BARBARA: How are we going to explain our absence? 
IAN: Yeah, that's a point, isn't it? We'll have to think of something. It had better be good, eh? 
CONDUCTOR: Fares please. 
IAN: Oh, er, two three's, please. 
CONDUCTOR: Two three's? You must be joking. Where've you been? On the Moon? 
IAN: Er, no, but you're getting warm. 
BARBARA: Shh!

[Tardis]

(On the Visualiser, Ian and Barbara burst into laughter) 
VICKI: Doctor, they made it! They made it! 
DOCTOR: I shall miss them. Yes, I shall miss them, silly old fusspots. Come along, my dear, it's time we were off. 

[Tardis]

(The hum of the Tardis is broken only by the ticking of a very ornate clock.) 
VICKI: I shall miss them, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Who? 
VICKI: Ian and Barbara. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I shall miss them too. First Susan and now them. Come over here, my dear, I'd like to talk to you. 
VICKI: What about the control panel? 
DOCTOR: Oh, that's all right, my dear. It's already set. Their decision certainly surprised me, although it shouldn't, I know. But it was quite obvious they intended to take the first opportunity of going back home. 
VICKI: Well, they weren't getting any younger, were they? 
DOCTOR: It's lucky for you child, they're not here to hear you say that. Good gracious me. You think they're old? What do you think of me? 
VICKI: You're different, Doctor. Anyway, we may land in their time one day and be able to talk over old times. 
DOCTOR: Well, perhaps Vicki, perhaps. 
VICKI: Anyway, it's done now. I wonder where the Tardis'll take us next? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's done now, although I must admit I'm left with a small worry. 
VICKI: You know, I wouldn't mind New York. I didn't get to see a lot of it, what with the Daleks and everything. But what I saw from the top of the Empire State Building, I wouldn't mind going back there. 
DOCTOR: My dear Vicki, I'm trying to talk to you. 
VICKI: Oh, sorry. 
DOCTOR: I just wanted to ask you, are you sure you didn't want to go home too? I didn't give you very much time to consider now, did I? I should hate to think that you're just staying for the sake of an old man. 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor! I made my decision. I wanted to stay. Anyway, I wouldn't have anything to go back to. 
DOCTOR: Yes, your father 
(Rattle) 
VICKI: Did you hear that? 
DOCTOR: Yes, perhaps it's something fallen down, or maybe we've changed course. 
(Thump) 
VICKI: (sotto) There's someone in the living quarters. Doctor, be careful. It's obviously a Dalek. 
(The Doctor takes off his jacket to throw over the eye-piece. The doors open, and a ragged man carrying a stuffed toy staggers out and falls on the floor.) 
VICKI: Steven!

[Clifftop]

(The Tardis materialise on a beach. A monk on the cliff top observes it.) 
MONK: I wonder. Oh, I wonder.

[Tardis]

STEVEN: Thanks. Sorry about that, Doc. 
VICKI: We thought you were dead. 
STEVEN: Well, I nearly was. I just managed to climb down that cable before it burned out. Then I came after you. 
VICKI: You should have shouted. 
STEVEN: Should have? I never stopped! Say, this is quite a ship you've got here, Doc. Never seen anything like it. 
DOCTOR: Now listen to me, young man. Sit down. Now, there are two things you can do. One, sit there until you get your breath back, and two, don't call me Doc! Now do I make myself clear? 
STEVEN: Yes, yes, whatever you say, Doc-tor! 
DOCTOR: Apart from that young man, I'm quite willing to accept you at your face value. 
VICKI: You were lucky to find the Tardis in all that jungle. 
STEVEN: Yeah, we were lucky. You know, I don't seem to remember much about it. There was a door. I went through it. I must have flaked out. I remember registering that, well, it didn't look like a ship. It was very small. I must have been delirious. 
VICKI: I don't suppose you were. It is very small outside. It's just in here it's big. 
STEVEN: Oh, come off it! 
VICKI: You don't believe me, do you? 
STEVEN: Oh, of course I do, Vicki. Every word. 
VICKI: This isn't an ordinary ship, you know. This is a time machine. 
STEVEN: Time? Look, this ship may have a way-out design, but time machines? That's ridiculous. 
VICKI: Doctor? He says the Tardis isn't a time machine. 
DOCTOR: Oh, does he now? 
VICKI: Tell him. 
DOCTOR: I don't see why I should, my child. He'll learn soon enough. 
STEVEN: Look, Doctor, I've seen some spaceships in my time, admittedly nothing like this. Well, what does this do? 
DOCTOR: That is the dematerialising control and that, over yonder, is the horizontal hold. Up there is the scanner, those are the doors, that is a chair with a panda on it. Sheer poetry, dear boy. Now please stop bothering me. 
STEVEN: Look, you gave this ship a name just now, what was it? 
VICKI: Tardis, T A R D I S. It stands for Time And Relative Dimensions In Space. 
STEVEN: IDBI. 
VICKI: What? IDBI? 
STEVEN: I D B I. 
VICKI: Yes? 
STEVEN: It means I Don't Believe It. 
VICKI: You'll see, you'll see. 
DOCTOR: Vicki? 
VICKI: Yes? 
DOCTOR: I've checked up on all the readings. Now I think our guest will need a wash and brush up. So I think the best thing for you to do is go and find him some clothes and a cloak. Bring mine as well. We'll show him whether this is a time machine or not. 
VICKI: Where are we? 
DOCTOR: Well, judging by the readings, my child, I think we've landed on the planet Earth.

[Village]

(A woman puts a cauldron on a fire, It's Hur from the Stone Age, or rather, a descendant.) 
ELDRED: Wulnoth with you? 
EDITH: Inside. 
ELDRED: Something's landed on the beach. I saw it from the cliff. 
WULNOTH: What is it? 
ELDRED: A large box washed ashore by the tide, probably from a ship. I didn't go down, I came for you. 
WULNOTH: What sort of box? 
ELDRED: I don't know. It's just very big. I've never seen anything like it before. 
WULNOTH: The tide'll be turning. We must hurry. You lead the way. 
EDITH: It's a long way to the beach and back. What about your meal?

[Beach]

(The Doctor is examining a metal helm with horns on) 
DOCTOR: Where did you say you found this, Vicki? 
VICKI: Just down there. I saw it as soon as I came out of the ship. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's a bit rusted but, er, it's not as old as that. Tenth, eleventh century? England. Well, there you are, young man. What do you think of that now, eh? A Viking helmet. 
STEVEN: Oh, maybe. 
DOCTOR: What do you mean, maybe? What do you think it is, a space helmet for a cow? 
STEVEN: Look, it could just as easily be part of a costume. You know, a toy left here by a child. 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish, rubbish. 
STEVEN: No more so than your theory. Though your ship is, to say the least, a little unusual. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I see, so you've changed your idea's now. 
STEVEN: If it is a time machine, I'm not saying it is, mind you, but if it is, shouldn't you know where we are? You know, your control panel? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, but unfortunately, we have a slight technical hitch at the moment. Excuse me. 
VICKI: As a matter of fact, we never know where we're going to land next. 
STEVEN: Oh, so assuming I believe what you tell me, you can't take me home. 
VICKI: Not by any direct route. Let's go exploring now? 
DOCTOR: Yes, perhaps we should find a village whereby we can convince this young upstart of the true facts. 
STEVEN: Oh, great, Doctor. I'm all for that. But there is one thing that bothers me. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes? What is it now? 
STEVEN: Well, how come you chose such an unusual design for your ship? A Police telephone box? Is that right? 
(The Monk is hiding behind a rock, listening to them) 
DOCTOR: The design is completely immaterial, young man. The Tardis is required to land and blend in with its surroundings. 
STEVEN: Blend in? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. For instance, If we were to land in the middle of the Indian mutiny, well, I'm sure the ship could possibly take on the appearance of a howdah. 
STEVEN: How-what? 
DOCTOR: A Howdah! A carrier on the back of an elephant. 
STEVEN: Oh, I see. Oh, and, and if it landed on the pebbles/ 
DOCTOR: On the what? 
STEVEN: If it landed on the beach against the cliffs, it'd take on the appearance of a large rock? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes, but you do keep on, don't you. 
STEVEN: Do you wonder why I don't believe you? You know, that large rock over there looks exactly like a Police telephone box. 
VICKI: That is merely another technical hitch and the Doctor will repair it one day. Anyway, if we're going to do any exploring we should do it now, 'cos it's going to get dark in a minute. 
DOCTOR: Now I suggest we take a walk along the beach and try and find a spot where the cliffs run down to sea level. 
STEVEN: Yeah, but that could be miles. It'd be much quicker to go up here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, so possibly it might, but I'm not a mountain goat and I prefer walking to it any day, and I hate climbing! 
VICKI: We'll go with you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No, you won't, you'll stay with the ship and wait 'til I've got to the top then you can both climb up and join me. 
VICKI: But, Doctor, you might get 
DOCTOR: I'm not going to argue, my child. 
STEVEN: Yes, but. 
(The Doctor leaves) 
STEVEN: Oh, heck. 
VICKI: You might try being a bit more tactful in future 
STEVEN: Don't you start as well, come on, let's go up. 
VICKI: No, I think we should stay here and wait for him like the Doctor said. 
STEVEN: Why? We've got to go up there sooner or later. It might as well be sooner. We can walk along the top and meet. Hey, that bit there looks climbable. Come on. 
VICKI: I'm not 
VICKI + STEVEN: very good on heights! 
STEVEN: Oh, come on, you'll be all right. 
(Vicki and Steven leaves, and the Monk examines the Tardis, then smiles)

[Hut]

(As evening falls, the Doctor enters the village and goes into Wolnoth's hut. He picks up a dead fox, then tests a longbow. A dog or wolf howls and he goes outside. Someone uses a forked stick to pin him to the wall)

[Monastery]

(Owls are hooting as the Monk unlocks the main door and bars it behind him. After a few moments a light shines out of an upper window then we hear monks chanting, presumably Vespers.)

[Clifftop]

(The tide has come right in now) 
ELDRED: Yes, it was on the beach, below us here. 
WULNOTH: Are you certain? 
ELDRED: Yes, positive. I remember the way the rocks look. 
WULNOTH: Pity, it might have been valuable. 
ELDRED: It would have been crushed against the rocks by now, whatever it was.

[Village]

(A horn of drink is poured and taken outside. The monks can be heard here too) 
DOCTOR: Oh, what's this? 
EDITH: Mead. 
DOCTOR: Mead? Oh, mead. Yes, of course, yes. Yes, how nice of you, yes. Delightful, thank you, thank you. Well, here's to your very good health. 
(The Doctor drinks.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, delightful. Oh, yes, delightful. Tell me, is the monastery near here? 
EDITH: No, it's not far from here. It's just at the top of the hill. And when the winds in the right direction, you can hear the monks much clearer, as though they're down in the village. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, quite understandable, you know. Sounds do play funny tricks at times. 
EDITH: I, er, I hope you will forgive a woman's harsh welcome. We do fear strangers but we're very happy to welcome a traveller. Not that we see many in this wild place. I'm sure that when my husband returns, he'll insist that you stay the night. And then you can rejoin your friends in the morning. 
DOCTOR: Well, that's very kind, very kind indeed. And I do hope they won't worry about me too much. You know, I hadn't intended to walk quite so far. You are near the coast? 
EDITH: Yes. While there are fish in the sea, one need never starve. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
EDITH: Course, there are bad things, too. 
DOCTOR: Oh, of course, of course, my dear. The Vikings, for example? 
EDITH: Not that we've seen much of them, this year. Except for that one raid that was beaten off just north of here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I had heard about that battle, yes, yes. The King, er, greatly improved the position no end. 
EDITH: The King? Harold Godwinson? We received no help from him. 
DOCTOR: You know, it seems like yesterday that the good King Edward was laid to rest. When was it? 
EDITH: It was the beginning of the year. 
DOCTOR: Oh, of course. Yes, yes, yes, the beginning of the year, yes, yes, yes. How silly. Yes, it's most refreshing. 
EDITH: Oh, I'll get you more. 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you. Yes, thank you, my dear. 
(Edith goes into the hut) 
DOCTOR: Now, if Harold is king, and Edward was laid to rest at the beginning of the year, then it must be 1066! Yes. Judging by the appearance of these leaves, late summer. And a balmy night, a balmy night. 
(Edith returns) 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you, my dear. Thank you, thank you. Er, you know, it's a bit stupid of me but, we are in Northumbria? 
EDITH: Yes, of course, we are. Why do you ask? 
DOCTOR: Oh, nothing, nothing, I just that I wasn't sure whether I'd crossed the border or not. Yes, it's a bit tedious of me, isn't it? But you must have patience with an old man. 
EDITH: Oh, please, sit down and rest before the fire. You must be tired after your journey. Forgive me, I have things to do before Wulnoth returns. 
DOCTOR: I will, I will, and thank you indeed. Thank you. Yes, it's a great pity that Barbara isn't here. Now, if my memory of English history serves me right, we're about to have a Viking invasion and very soon. Now, let me think. Harold came north to defeat Hardrada, the Norwegian King. Yes, now that was before he faced William the Conqueror at Hastings. It's all very interesting. Yes, that's very, very, very, very interesting. It's going to put that young man in his place. 
(The chanting slows down then suddenly gets back up to speed again) 
DOCTOR: Woman! Woman! Where are you? 
EDITH: What? What is it? 
DOCTOR: The monastery. Where is it, did you say? 
EDITH: Well, at the top of the hill. Why? What's the matter? 
DOCTOR: The monks, have they been here long? 
EDITH: No, the monastery itself's been deserted for years and years and then, several weeks ago, a few monks must have moved back in. 
DOCTOR: And you haven't seen them? No one in the village has? 
EDITH: One's been seen, but never spoken to. How does he know that? 
DOCTOR: Oh, you've been very kind, and a great help, yes. I'm sorry, but I must take my leave of you. 
EDITH: Are you going to the monastery? 
DOCTOR: I most certainly am.

[Forest]

STEVEN: Look, are you coming? 
VICKI: Can't we rest a minute? 
STEVEN: We just did. 
VICKI: Well, I'm tired. 
STEVEN: Oh, well, we'll wait a little while. But we're lost. We can't stay here all night. 
(a twig snaps) 
VICKI: Shh! 
STEVEN: What's the matter? 
VICKI: I think somebody's coming. 
STEVEN: Why are we hiding? We can ask him the way. 
VICKI: No. Because I think we should follow him until we find out whether it's safe or not. 
STEVEN: Oh. 
VICKI: Supposing you do what I say for once? 
(It's a villager with a rabbit for the pot. He stops and picks something up from the ground) 
VICKI: He's found something. 
STEVEN: What is it? 
VICKI: I can't see. 
STEVEN: Did you drop something? Hey! You! 
(The villager runs off) 
STEVEN: Hey! Come back! 
VICKI: Steven! 
(Steven catches the villager) VICKI: Steven, I. Leave him alone! Stop it! Stop it, Steven! 
(Steven lets go and the villager runs off) 
VICKI: You all right? 
STEVEN: Yes, I think so. I got it. 
VICKI: What was it? 
(A wrist watch with an expanding bracelet, and the time is 11.50) 
STEVEN: You still say this is tenth century England?

[Monastery door]

(The Doctor arrives at the monastery and tries the door, but it is still bolted. He steps back, and the door is unbolted from the inside. It swings open.)

[Monastery entrance]

(The Doctor enters. He explores the complex and discovers an old fashioned horned gramophone playing in an alcove. He stops the chanting. Then a wooden grill comes down, trapping him there. The Monk comes up and laughs in his face.)

Episode Two - The Meddling Monk

[Monastery Kitchen]

(Next morning, the Monk is making breakfast with an electronic toaster and a camping stove. He puts fried eggs and toast onto a plate on a tray along with a china tea cup and heads off through the monastery.)

[Cell]

(The Monk quietly opens the door and slides the tray inside before locking up again then MONK: Breakfast! Breakfast! Come along. Early to bed, early to rise! Come on. Do you want the eggs to get cold? 
(The cup of tea is thrown in his face.) 
DOCTOR [OC]: Go away! I'll come out when I'm ready.

[Forest]

(The villagers spot the sleeping travellers.) 
VICKI: Steven? Steven? Oh, Steven! 
STEVEN: Morning. What are you looking so jittery about? 
VICKI: I thought I heard somebody moving about in the bushes. 
STEVEN: That was me. I was looking for some food. 
VICKI: Did you find anything? 
STEVEN: That's a matter of opinion. Want some breakfast? 
VICKI: Yes, please. 
STEVEN: Well, you can either have some blackberries or some blackberries. 
VICKI: I don't think it matters, thanks. Oh, Im freezing. 
STEVEN: Mmm. We'd better get moving then. 
VICKI: What, back to the Tardis? 
STEVEN: Yes. If the Doctor's not there, we'll have to think again. 
VICKI: I wonder what time it is. 
(Steven shows her the watch on his wrist) 
STEVEN: Twenty past five. 
VICKI: I wonder if the Doctor did drop that. 
STEVEN: You said before he didn't have a watch. 
VICKI: I said I didn't think he had. 
STEVEN: Oh, why don't you admit all this tenth century stuff's just 
(A twig snaps and Steven goes to investigate.) 
VICKI: There's somebody there. Steven? Steven? 
(Eldred grabs Vicki and puts a knife to her throat while two others jump Steven.) 
ELDRED: What shall we do with them? 
WULNOTH: Take them to the village.

[Outside the Monastery]

(The Monk comes out, and looks at his wrist. Is he missing a watch? He goes up to the ridge, but hurries down and sits reading a scroll when ) 
EDITH: Good morning, Father. 
MONK: Ah, good morning, my children. Good morning. Oh, so deep was I in my meditations, I failed to see you arrive. You must forgive me. 
EDITH: Oh, no, it is we who should ask forgiveness of you, disturbing you like this. 
MONK: No please, please. You're always welcome here. 
EDITH: We, er, we thought you might need some food. 
MONK: Ah, how very charitable of you, my dear. 
EDITH: Oh, I'm sorry Father, it's poor fare for the likes of you. 
MONK: Yes, but don't distress yourself, my child. We must all be prepared to make sacrifices when they're asked of us. Well, I, er, I would like to stop and talk and pass the time of day with you, but this morning, solitude and study are uppermost in my mind. 
EDITH: We understand, Father. 
MONK: Thank you again, my child. Good morning. 
EDITH: Morning, Father. 
(Once they have gone, he is able to get his binoculars out and scan the horizon.)

[Cell]

DOCTOR [OC]: Open this door! Open this door, will you! Open it!

[Clifftop]

(The Monk settles down, and would take a pinch of snuff except the wind blows it away. A Viking longship comes into view) 
MONK: At last! At last!

[Village]

VICKI: Are you all right? 
STEVEN: I've felt better. I dare say I'll get over it. It's pretty authentic Saxon, isn't it? 
VICKI: Don't tell me you've actually started to believe us? 
STEVEN: I mean they'd hardly go to all this trouble for a fancy dress ball, now would they? We've got to get out of here. 
(But spears bar his way) 
VICKI: It looks as though they want us to stay. 
STEVEN: Yes, we must be more popular than we thought. 
ELDRED: Wulnoth, we can't just let them go! 
WULNOTH: Their clothes are strange. If they're travellers 
ELDRED: Travellers? With no provisions or belongings? And travelled from where? 
WULNOTH: Well, we can ask them, Eldred. 
ELDRED: Why listen to their lies? They've been put ashore somewhere along to the coast to spy for the Vikings. 
WULNOTH: You've got no proof of that! 
ELDRED: Nor do we have proof of what you say! 
WULNOTH: Maybe not, but I'm the headman of the village. 
ELDRED: You maybe Headman now, but when the people hear how you treated their enemies, those two will be killed! 
WULNOTH: Eldred! 
EDITH: Eldred! 
(There's a stand off, then Edith goes over to Vicki and Steven.) 
EDITH: Are you looking for an old man with long white hair? 
STEVEN: You've seen him? 
WULNOTH: Of which old man do you speak, woman? 
EDITH: He came here late last night. He wore clothes like these people. 
STEVEN: Do you know where he is now? 
WULNOTH: Did you question him? 
EDITH: A little. He said he was a traveller. 
ELDRED: Then he lied. 
STEVEN: Oh, for goodness sake. 
ELDRED: Wulnoth! I do not trust them! 
STEVEN: Well, I'm not mad about you either! 
WULNOTH: I think these people are what they say they are, Eldred. Innocent travellers. 
ELDRED: I do not trust them. Sooner or later you will regret that you didn't listen to me. 
VICKI: Are you going to stand here arguing all day? Either let us go, or do whatever you're going to do, but make up your minds. 
WULNOTH: You can go. Edith, take the girl inside and get some food for their journey.

[Hut]

VICKI: And the Doctor, the old man, what happened to him? 
EDITH: Oh, he was going to stay and then he suddenly decided to visit the monastery. 
VICKI: That's quite near here, isn't it? I heard the singing. 
EDITH: It's not far. It's just at the top of the hill behind the forest. I can take you. 
VICKI: Oh, it's all right, thanks. 
EDITH: Here.

[Village]

VICKI: Steven. 
STEVEN: Thanks. Thank you. 
VICKI: Thank you. 
EDITH: God be with you. 
WULNOTH: God be with you. 
STEVEN: God be with you. 
WULNOTH: Time we were working in the fields.

[Clifftop]

(The Vikings use grappling hooks to scale the cliffs) 
ULF: Any sign of life? 
VIKING: No. Tell the others to wait below. Sven, you, with Ulf and Gunnar go south. Radnor will take a similar group to the north. 
SVEN: I understand. 
VIKING: And remember, Sven, when you rejoin the force, we will want to know the lie of the land. Where there is food and fresh water available, and the strength of the villages. 
SVEN: And if we're seen? 
VIKING: Then you'll have no choice but to fight. But keep in your minds this is no ordinary raid. You are the eyes of the King. 
ULF: We'll need provisions ourselves. 
SVEN: The first village we find will provide those. 
VIKING: Yes, but be careful. If your presence here can be kept secret, Harold Hardrada will have surprise on his side. Now, go. 
SVEN: Gunnar. 
VIKING: Send Ragra and the others up. Then we can rejoin the fleet.

[Outside the Monastery]

(Steven knocks on the door) 
VICKI: It's very beautiful here, isn't it? 
STEVEN: They could use a gardener. 
MONK: Good day, my children, good day. 
STEVEN: Good day. We're looking for 
MONK: Indeed, we're all searching for something. Some like myself seek it in the peace and solitude that repose behind these monastery 
STEVEN: We are looking for a friend of ours. 
MONK: Oh, you think I can help? 
VICKI: He left word in the village that he was coming up here. 
MONK: Would that we could all realise our ambitions. Be they a lifelong wish or a stated intention of journeying for self 
STEVEN: Look, are you trying to tell us that he didn't come here? 
MONK: My son, no stranger has knocked on this door for many a day, welcome though they be. 
STEVEN: Are you sure you haven't seen anyone around the place? 
MONK: I'm afraid not. 
VICKI: What about the others? 
MONK: Others? 
VICKI: The other monks? 
MONK: Ah, the other monks, yes. Well, I'm sure they would have mentioned it to me had they seen him. However, if you'll wait here, I shall go inside and inquire just to make sure. 
VICKI: Looks as though the Doctor didn't come up here. 
STEVEN: Didn't he? You know, I don't believe a word of it. It's just as if he expected us and if the Doctor didn't come here, well, where else could he go except back to the village? 
VICKI: I don't know 
STEVEN: Well, I'm not convinced. I'll tell you what, when he comes out again, I'm going to try something. So whatever happens, don't say a word. Nothing. Okay? 
VICKI: Okay. 
(The Monk has been listening behind the door. He comes out again.) 
MONK: I apologise for keeping you waiting. 
STEVEN: It's quite all right. 
MONK: I'm afraid the answer is not the one you'd wish to hear. 
VICKI: You haven't seen him? 
MONK: I'm sorry 
STEVEN: Oh, well, er, perhaps you'd keep a lookout for him? 
MONK: Oh, I certainly will, yes. 
STEVEN: Are you sure you'll remember his description? 
MONK: Description? I let me see. Long white hair, a black cloak and rather strange checked trousers. 
STEVEN: That's it, you've got it. Fine. Thanks. 
MONK: Not at all. 
STEVEN: Thanks very much indeed. 
MONK: You're very welcome, my son. I'm sorry I couldn't have done more. Good day. 
STEVEN: Good day. 
(The Monk goes back inside.) 
VICKI: We didn't give him a description of the Doctor. 
STEVEN: I know we didn't. That means he must have seen him, doesn't it? He's keeping him prisoner in there. I'll stake my life on that, Vicki. 
VICKI: Well, he was pretty stupid to give himself away like that. 
STEVEN: It's easily done. 
VICKI: Too easy. I don't think we've been as clever as we think we have. 
STEVEN: Oh, now, what does that mean? 
VICKI: Well look, say he's the one who's tricked us. Say he gave himself away deliberately like that, in order to make us think we'd fooled him. 
STEVEN: Vicki, there's only one way we can find out what's going on in there. That's to break in. 
VICKI: That's exactly what he wants us to do. 
STEVEN: Well, possibly, but we've no other choice. We'll wait till it's dark. Come on.

[Village]

(In the evening gloom, Edith is wary. She takes a spear but caught by Gunnar.)

[Outside the Monastery]

STEVEN: I think the best idea is to go and try around the other side.

[Village]

(The village has been pillaged, which implies that -) 
WULNOTH: Edith!

[Hut]

( - has been raped) 
WULNOTH: Edith! 
(Her eyes are staring at nothing.) 
WULNOTH: Get what help you can from the village. 
ELDRED: It was those travellers. I know it. I said you would regret not listening to me, Wulnoth. But even I would not have felt them capable of this 
WULNOTH: Get the men! 
(As the Vikings make off, drinking the mead, Wulnoth and a woman tend Edith.) 
WULNOTH: Who did it? Who was it? 
EDITH: Vikings. 
ELDRED: We're ready. 
WULNOTH: Vikings.

[Forest]

ELDRED: They're leaving a good trail. 
WULNOTH: Then we'll find them all the quicker. Come on. 
(Sven, Ulf and Gunnar don't care because they've finished the mead.) 
SVEN: Ulf, you like the provisions we found? 
(The Saxons attack. There are injuries on both sides. Wulnoth and Ulf are evenly matched.) 
WULNOTH: Saxons! Here! 
SVEN: Leave him, Ulf, Gunnar's dead. Come on!
(The Vikings run off) 
WULNOTH: How is it? It's bleeding badly. 
ELDRED: I think I can walk back to the village. 
WULNOTH: No, no, the monastery's much nearer. Come on. Put your arm round me. This way.

[Monastery]

(The Monk walks past, and Vicki and Steven climb in.) 
VICKI + STEVEN: Follow me. 
(They head in opposite directions, then Steven turns to follow Vicki.)

[Corridor]

(The Monk starts up the gramophone and checks the portcullis. He waits as Steven and Vicki explore then hear a hammering on the door, so he goes to see who it is.) 
(Steven and Vicki find the gramophone but leave it playing, and then find the Doctor's cell) 
STEVEN: It's the Doctor. I think he's asleep. 
VICKI: Oh! Hurry! 
(Steven uses a pen-knife to pick the lock.)

[Monastery door]

MONK: Yes, what is it? 
WULNOTH: I have a wounded man here, Father. He needs help. 
MONK: By all means. Bring him in. 
(Wulnoth already has.)

[Cell]

(Steven manages to break in.) 
VICKI: Doctor! Doctor, wake up. We're here. Doctor? 
(The cloak covers a pile of furs) 
VICKI: He's gone. He's gone!

Episode Three - A Battle of Wits

[Chamber]

MONK: Make him comfortable here, my son. I'll return soon and tend his wounds. 
WULNOTH: Oh, thank you, Father.

[Cell]

VICKI: Well, this is definitely his cloak. 
STEVEN: Yes, he was in here all right, Vicki. What's happened to him? 
VICKI: The door was locked wasn't it? 
STEVEN: Of course it was. You saw me open it myself. The Monk thought he was in here, too. 
VICKI: What, because the clothes on the bed hadn't been moved? 
STEVEN: Well, it makes sense, doesn't it? How did he get out? 
VICKI: There's only one possible answer. 
STEVEN: What? 
VICKI: A secret passage. 
STEVEN: A secret pa? Oh no! 
VICKI: Listen, they always have them in castles and monasteries and things in case of siege, or fire, or something. Well, don't just sit there. Help me look. 
(They try pressing on the walls) 
VICKI: Hey, Steven, come and look at this. Steven? A loose stone! What did I say? 
(Steven hauls the stone door open) 
STEVEN: Who's a clever girl then? 
(They leave, closing the door after them. The Monk comes along and finds the cell is unlocked and empty)

[Corridor]

WULNOTH [OC]: Father? Father, where are you? 
MONK: Coming, my son. Coming!

[Secret passage]

(They are surrounded by tree trunks and ivy) 
VICKI: How much longer does this thing go on? 
STEVEN: It must go on for quite a way, Vicki, if only to get clear of the monastery up there. 
VICKI: It's damp. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, we'd better get out of here quickly. You know, we could find the Doctor at the end of this. 
VICKI: If I know the Doctor, it's not going to be as simple as that.

[Hut]

DOCTOR: Well, from what you've just said, you've saved me quite a journey. 
EDITH: To meet your friends, you mean? 
DOCTOR: Yes, indeed so. I told them quite specifically to meet me outside the Tar, the pre-arranged place. I was going along to tell them that I'd come to no harm whilst I was making investigations, as we might say. But, well now, now you tell me they came here and they've gone on to the monastery. 
EDITH: I can't think how you missed them. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's all perfectly simple. I left through the rear entrance. That reminds me. I really think I ought to be wending my way. It's a good thing I saw the smoke rising from your fire. I'm becoming quite a regular visitor, I think. 
EDITH: You've been my only visitor tonight. But you don't know. My husband and the men from the village have gone after the Vikings. 
DOCTOR: You've seen them, and their fleet? 
EDITH: Oh, no, no, not a fleet, this was just a small band of men. They must have come from one ship. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. Yes, I see.

[Village]

EDITH: You speak of a fleet as though you knew it existed? 
DOCTOR: What? What was that? I've already told you, my dear, that I've learned of varied plans from all the places that I've visited before. 
EDITH: Plans of a Viking invasion? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I'm afraid so. 
EDITH: So that's why Harold Godwinson's struck on forming an army. Our men have travelled south already to join it. I thought it was William of Normandy's invasion across the channel, not a Viking invasion he feared. 
DOCTOR: The Monk in this situation just can't be a coincidence. 
EDITH: The Monk? Did you say the Monk? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I must face him. I realise that I've got far short a time than I thought I had. I'm always leaving you in a hurry, I'm afraid, but the matter has some urgency. 
EDITH: Well, won't you stay and have some venison? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, thank you, thank you, indeed. It's very kind of you. I must go. Yes, goodbye. Oh, and, don't worry, don't worry. The Vikings will land south of here, in the Humber. And King Harold will defeat them. Yes, and then in a few weeks time, he loses the battle of Hastings to William the Conqueror. Well, at least that's what the history books said happened.

[Forest]

VICKI: Doctor! Doctor! 
STEVEN: No, you were right, Vicki. The Doctor wouldn't wait for us here. 
VICKI: He must have gone back to the Tardis. 
STEVEN: Yes, probably. You know, there's something very peculiar going on. Now I've got to accept something, so all right, I accept you've got a time machine. 
VICKI: Ha! Hooray! 
STEVEN: But the watch, the gramophone, the Saxons. That doesn't add up. It must be something to do with that Monk. You know, I think we should go back to the monastery. 
VICKI: Oh, no. Because the Doctor will want to investigate just as much as you, probably more. Let's find him and all three do it together, hmm? 
STEVEN: Okay. Go on, you lead the way.

[Chamber]

(The Monk takes some tablets from a concealed first aid box) 
MONK: Eldred? You need to wallow these. 
WULNOTH: What are those, Father? 
MONK: Oh, it's just some penicillin. It's a sort of herb. 
(Looking at Wulnoth's sword) 
MONK: Wulnoth, I wish you'd take that outside. This is a monastery. Can't you see I'm trying to tend a sick man? 
WULNOTH: Oh, I'm sorry, Father. 
(Wulnoth leaves) 
MONK: Eldred? Eldred? Eldred? Eldred? Listen. The Vikings you met, now if they were a scouting party, how soon would it be before the other ships arrived? 
ELDRED: If they, if they were part of the main fleet, two, three days, Father. 
MONK: Thank you, thank you, my son. Two or three days. I'm on schedule. I'm on schedule! 
WULNOTH: He'll have to stay here for a while, Father. He's very weak. 
MONK: Yes, of course, he's weak. He's lost a lot of blood. I'd like to give him a blood transfusion, but 
WULNOTH: Blood trans fu sion? 
MONK: My son, all we can do now for Eldred is to wait and pray. 
WULNOTH: But Father 
MONK: Now listen to what I have to say now, my son. This is what I want to say. Take your friend home and give thanks that within these sacred walls 
WULNOTH: He'll have to stay for a day or two, Father. He's very weak. 
MONK: Stay here? 
WULNOTH: Don't worry, Father. My wife Edith, will call regularly and attend to any additional work, and I will come to if, if work permits. 
MONK: Now, look here, my son, I 
WULNOTH: Yes, Father? 
MONK: Oh nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing. 
WULNOTH: Oh, goodbye and thank you, Father. 
MONK: Goodbye, my son.

[Forest]

ULF: As soon as its light, every Saxon for miles around will be looking for us. 
SVEN: We'll rest here a while, then travel south. 
ULF: Why go south? 
SVEN: If we put enough distance between the Saxons and ourselves, we can still complete our task. 
ULF: Sven, we have failed! Leave it to Radnor. Let us think of our own safety. 
SVEN: We were landed here for a reason. 
ULF: What good can the two of us do now? If we meet up with the Saxons again, they will kill us easily. 
SVEN: And what would you have us do? 
ULF: We could hide. 
SVEN: Coward! 
ULF: Kill me! Go on, kill me! If you don't, the Saxons will. And you'll be dead too if you don't listen to what I say. Nothing has changed. Our army will still land. 
SVEN: Think what will happen when we come before the King! 
ULF: We can meet up with him once he is inland. Say we were attacked and held. Don't pretend that it is only me. I'm saying what we both think. Our army will still land, even if we'd all been killed back in the forest. 
SVEN: I suppose you've already thought of a place to hide. 
ULF: Yes. The monastery. 
SVEN: And ask for what? Sanctuary? 
ULF: They can't refuse us. 
SVEN: Even if they do, you'd rather do battle with a band of monks than with Saxons? 
ULF: They'll hide us. Once inside, we can take hostages. 
SVEN: If you thought as much of our task as you did of our own safety. 
ULF: And yours, Sven. And yours.

[Chapel]

(The Monk is ticking of items on his progress chart. Arrival in Northumbria, tick. Position atomic cannon, tick. Sight Vikings, tick. Still to come are Light Beacon Fires, Destroy Viking Fleet, Norman Landing, Battle of Hastings and Meet King Harold) 
MONK: Sight Vikings. We're up to date, we're up to date. Now then, light beacon fires. I can get the villagers to help me with that. Oh ho! Everything's going on marvellously! According to plan. Now, to convert this ridiculous thing into miles. Absurd measurement, miles, kilometres, I don't know where they are. There. 
(He marks a map and makes notes when there's a banging on the door) 
MONK: Oh. Oh, no more visitors. It's getting it's getting so that you can't call a monastery your own. 
(He bundles up his papers and puts them in the altar while the banging continues) 
MONK: All right! All right! I'm coming!

[Outside the Monastery]

(The Monk opens up and steps out, but there's no one there. But as soon as he goes back in and bars the door, someone knocks again. The Monk looks around, and the Doctor comes up behind him and jabs a branch into his back. They go inside the monastery)

[Monastery entrance]

(The Monk tries to make a sudden move) 
DOCTOR: I have a Winchester '73 right in the middle of your spinal cord. 
(The Doctor shuts and bars the door) 
DOCTOR: Proceed. 
(They walk on a little way) 
DOCTOR: Wait. 
MONK: I thought I'd seen the last of you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, did you now? Well, as it happens, I happen to be a very curious fellow. Yes, very curious. Now then, I have some questions for you and I want them answered. Continue.

[Clifftop]

VICKI: It was somewhere about here. 
STEVEN: I can't tell for certain but I think this is an easy way down. 
VICKI: The tide. Steven, the tide's come in. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, it usually does. 
VICKI: Yes, but the Tardis was down there. Oh, no. The tide. Nobody thought of that. 
STEVEN: Well, it's a bit late to think of it now. 
VICKI: Yes, but what shall we do? 
STEVEN: Look, if the Doctor came back here, he'd have moved it. He wouldn't have left it on the beach. 
VICKI: The only way the Doctor could move the Tardis would be to dematerialise. 
STEVEN: So? 
VICKI: If the Doctor left here in the Tardis, he couldn't get back. Oh, it can't be that, it can't be! 
STEVEN: Look, there's no point in us sitting here. I think we should go back to the monastery. 
VICKI: The monastery. What's the point of that now? 
STEVEN: At least we'd be doing something practical. Whatever's happened down there, it has happened. There's no point in moping about it. 
VICKI: I'm not moping. You don't know what the Tardis meant. 
STEVEN: Come on. 
(Steven spots a device hidden in the shrubs) 
STEVEN: What's this? Vicki, come and take a look at this. 
VICKI: What? 
STEVEN: Just come and look! What do you make of that? 
VICKI: It's a gun of sorts. 
STEVEN: Trained out to sea, hidden by the bushes. Look, in Saxon times, they used swords and bows and arrows, not things like this, didn't they? 
VICKI: Yes, you're right. 
STEVEN: The Monk, it must be. You still say there's no point in going back to the monastery? Come on.

[Corridor]

DOCTOR: All right, that will do. You know, I believe we've come through this corridor twice already. It's no use you playing for time, you know. I want some answers! 
(The Monk tries to make a grab for the 'gun') 
DOCTOR: Ah ha! Now, I wouldn't do that if I were you. This may not be a gun but I can still do you a considerable amount of harm. 
MONK: Oh, a man of violence. I'm surprised at you. 
DOCTOR: Never mind about all that. What is it you're doing here? What are you up to? 
(Banging at the door.) 
MONK: The door. I must go. 
DOCTOR: Just leave that, shall we? 
MONK: But if I don't go, they'll get suspicious. 
DOCTOR: Then we'll both go. I'll open the door, then I can keep an eye on you. 
MONK: You open the door? No, Doctor, that's not a very good idea. 
DOCTOR: Oh, isn't it? Why not? 
MONK: Because you're not wearing the right sort of clothes. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I see, I see. First, you want to open the door, then you want the chance to reverse the position with the help of whoever it is outside? Secondly, you want to get me into a monk's habit so that whoever that is, would recognise me as an imposter. 
MONK: Dear me, dear me, what an untrusting nature you have, my son. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and you can drop the monk's act. 
MONK: I'm only trying to help. Whoever it is, it's probably as traveller knocking for shelter. Who else could it be? Doctor, I must remind you this is a monastery, a place of refuge, sanctuary. 
DOCTOR: Yes, very well, if you have another cloak with the same type of cowl? Proceed. 
MONK: Of course. 
DOCTOR: And remember, no more monkery!

[Monastery entrance]

(The Doctor is in a habit, with his stick in the Monk's back.) 
DOCTOR: Wait there and be quiet. 
MONK: Doctor? It suits you. 
(The Doctor opens the door and Sven puts a sword to his throat.) 
DOCTOR: What is the meaning of this, sir! What 
SVEN: Silence, you old fool! 
DOCTOR: What? 
(Sven takes the stick off him, then he and Ulf enter the monastery)

[Outside the cell]

DOCTOR: This is no way to treat a man in my position. 
SVEN: Quiet, old man. 
ULF: This cell will do. Lock him in here. 
(The Doctor is pushed inside) 
ULF: There's no key. You guard him. I'll give our terms to the rest of the monks. Hide us or he dies.

[Chapel]

(The Monk pops up from behind the altar and hits Ulf over the head, knocking him out. Then he ties him up)

[Forest]

VICKI: It all looks so different in daylight. 
STEVEN: Ah ha! Here it is. 
(The entrance to the secret tunnel) 
VICKI: Oh, don't tell me we have to crawl down that thing again. 
STEVEN: Well, we can hardly go and knock on the front door now, can we? 
VICKI: I suppose not. 
STEVEN: Come on.

[Corridor]

(Cock crow wakes a sleeping Viking guard) 
SVEN: Ulf? Ulf? 
(Sven looks into the cell, panics and rushes in.)

[Cell]

(The Doctor is hiding behind the door. He hits Sven over the head while he is looking into the secret passageway.) 
DOCTOR: My dear man, you had me quite worried. I thought you were never coming in.

[Village]

MONK: Wulnoth? Wulnoth, are you there? 
EDITH: Oh, it's you, Father. 
MONK: I'm sorry to call so early, my child, but I must speak to your husband. 
EDITH: Yes. 
WULNOTH: Is anything wrong with Eldred? 
MONK: No, no, no. Eldred is splendid. No, Wulnoth, I've come here to ask for your help and that of the men of the village. 
WULNOTH: Oh, we'll help if we can, Father. 
MONK: Oh, you can, Wulnoth, you most certainly can. I'd have come here a bit later but it seems I'm going to be rather busy up at the monastery. 
WULNOTH: What is it that you want us to do? 
MONK: Prepare beacon fires on the cliff tops. 
WULNOTH: Beacon fires? 
MONK: Oh, don't worry, don't worry, Wulnoth. I'm expecting some building materials for reconstructing the monastery. They're coming by sea and I promised I'd give the ship our exact location. 
WULNOTH: Well, when are you expecting the ship? It'll take a little while to prepare a beacon. 
MONK: In a day or two, maybe three. Now, Wulnoth, you will light the fires when I ask, won't you, and keep them burning? 
WULNOTH: If you say so, Father. 
MONK: Splendid. Splendid. Now I must go back to the monastery. Eldred needs rather special care. Good day, my children. 
EDITH: Good day 
WULNOTH: Good day, Father. 
(The Monk leaves) 
WULNOTH: What did the old man say of the Vikings? 
EDITH: He spoke of a planned invasion of many hundred ships. 
WULNOTH: Beacon fires on the cliff tops.

[Cell]

(Vicki and Steven have found the unconscious Sven.) 
VICKI: A Viking? 
STEVEN: Well, however he is, he's lost an argument with somebody. Anyway, we can't bother about him. Let's go and have a look around. 
VICKI: What are we looking for anyway? 
STEVEN: Oh, we'll know when we find it, won't we?

[Corridor]

(The Monk returns and checks on the bound Ulf) 
MONK: Oh, ha, ha, ha! You still here, are you? Good, all I've got to do now is take care of you, your friend and the Doctor. Oh, by the way, you'll be please to know I've arranged the fires for your colleagues. 
(A sword is placed at his throat) 
DOCTOR: There you are, my dear fellow. I knew you'd come back. Now, which fires? What are they for?

[Chapel]

STEVEN: It's going to take us hours to search this place properly. 
VICKI: Hey, Steven, look at this. I think it's a cable. 
STEVEN: It is. Well, that's strange. 
STEVEN: What's it doing coming out of here? 
(The altar) 
VICKI: A door! 
STEVEN: Let me have a look. We can get inside.

[The Monk's Tardis]

VICKI: It's a Tardis. The Monk's got a Tardis!

Episode Four - Checkmate

[corridor]

DOCTOR: I repeat my question. Which fires and what are they for? 
MONK: All right, then. They're a signal for King Hardrada and the Viking fleet. 
DOCTOR: I see. 
MONK: They'll think it's a landing place. They'll come in unsuspecting, and then 
DOCTOR: Well? Out with it! 
MONK: I'm going to destroy them!

[The Monk's Tardis]

STEVEN: Hey, Vicki. Come take a look at this. He's got a sort of fantastic private collection. 
(Furniture, statues, artwork, objet d'art) 
VICKI: He's got something from every period and every place. 
STEVEN: Hey, come and take a look at this. 
(A mortar bomb type weapon. Vicki has found a journal.) 
STEVEN: It looks like some kind of neutron bomb, I think. 
VICKI: Pretty unpleasant looking things, whatever they are. 
STEVEN: Hey, you know these could be fired by that weapon we saw on the clifftop. I wonder what he wants to do? Sink a ship? 
VICKI: He could sink a whole navy with that lot, I should think. 
STEVEN: Yes, but the point is, why would he want to? 
VICKI: Why has he done a lot of things? Listen to this. 
STEVEN: Why? What have you got there? 
VICKI: A logbook. A sort of diary. Listen. Met Leonardo Da Vinci. 
STEVEN: Who? 
VICKI: Da Vinci. Listen! Met Leonardo Da Vinci and discussed with him the principles of powered flight. 
STEVEN: What? Da Vinci lived in the middle ages. I know he tried to build a flying machine, a sort of aeroplane. 
VICKI: I know and according to this it was the Monk who put him up to it. And listen to this: Put two hundred pounds in a London bank in 1968. Nipped forward two hundred years and collected a fortune in compound interest. (This is, of course, impossible)

[Corridor]

DOCTOR: So that's it! You're a time meddler! No wonder you wanted to get rid of me. And what are you trying to get up to this time? 
MONK: I'm sure you'll approve, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Are you quite mad? You know as well as I do the golden rule about space and time travelling. Never, never interfere with the course of history. 
MONK: And who says so? Doctor, it's more fun my way. I can make things happen ahead of their time. 
DOCTOR: Is that so? 
MONK: Yes, indeed. For instance, do you really believe the ancient Britons could have built Stonehenge without the aid of my anti-gravitational lift? 
DOCTOR: And what mischief are you up to now? 
MONK: Mischief? No, no. A master plan. A master plan to end all master plans. 
DOCTOR: Oh, is that so? 
MONK: The whole course of history changed in one single swoop. 
DOCTOR: By wiping out the Viking fleet? 
MONK: Exactly, Doctor, exactly. Of course, obviously, I don't have to remind you that the main reason William the Conqueror won the Battle of Hastings, was because King Harold had to march to Stamford Bridge and defeat the Vikings first. 
DOCTOR: So you plan to save him the journey? 
MONK: That's right. Precisely. A fresh army, no desertions. Why King Harold will kick William back to Normandy before knows what happened. It's quite a plan, eh? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, it's quite a plan. It's quite a plan, yes. I count myself a very fortunate person indeed, to be here, in time to prevent this disgusting exhibition! 
MONK: You haven't prevented it yet, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Haven't I? Where is this machine? 
MONK: I don't allow anybody in there. 
DOCTOR: Where is it? 
MONK: This way, Doctor.

[Corridor]

SVEN: Ulf? Ulf, where are you? Ulf? 
ELDRED: Vikings! (Sven finds Ulf and unties him) 
ULF: Where've you been? 
SVEN: The Monk tricked me into a cell, then knocked me out. 
ULF: Can't you even guard one old man? 
SVEN: You haven't done better yourself. Come on. We should get back to the forest. 
ULF: No, we'll stay here. 
SVEN: Here? 
ULF: Safer than being outside. Unless you prefer to meet the Saxons again. 
SVEN: They wouldn't take us so easily this time. Nor would we be hampered by the mead. 
ULF: Maybe not. But I'll choose the monks and whatever treasure may be stored inside these walls. 
SVEN: Treasure.

[Chapel]

MONK: Oh. Well, here we are. That's my time ship. 
DOCTOR: Oh, so that's it, eh? This horrible block of stone. 
MONK: This horrible block of stone, as you call it, is a perfect Saxon sarcophagus. 
DOCTOR: A Saxon what? 
MONK: Sarcophagus. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. 
MONK: And more in keeping with the period, I would say, than a modern police box? What's the matter, Doctor? Can't you repair your camouflage unit? 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, don't try and bamboozle me. It so happens that your machine fits into this monastery, but it's sheer luck. 
MONK: Luck? Luck? Oh, no, there's no luck about it. I couldn't have picked a better place for my headquarters than this. A deserted monastery right on the coast, gullible peasants who believe everything I say to them. No, Doctor. No, I planned to materialise my ship right on this very spot disguised as a sarcophagus, and here it is. 
DOCTOR: I see. And all this is part of your master plan? 
MONK: Precisely! There's nothing hit or miss about my machine. 
DOCTOR: Oh, isn't there now? Well, let's have a look at this great wonder. Yes, well, tell me, how does one exactly get into this sarcophagus? Hammer and chisel? 
MONK: This way, Doctor. Oh, er, mind your head. 
(Meanwhile, Eldred leaves the monastery to warn the villagers)

[The Monk's Tardis]

(Steven is reading the tick list) 
STEVEN: Destroy Viking fleet, Norman landing, Battle of Hastings, Meet King Harold? Well, it seems to tell the whole story. 
VICKI: Why, Steven? Why is he planning to do it? What's his reason? 
DOCTOR: That's a very good point, my child, indeed, a very good point. I must ask him that myself. 
VICKI: Doctor! You're safe! 
DOCTOR: Safe? 
STEVEN: Oh, are we glad to see you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Safe? Oh, my dear, of course I'm safe. Good gracious me. I see you found the machine. Keep your eye on that, young man. I thought I'd told you to wait outside the Tardis. 
VICKI: Oh, er, we 
STEVEN: Yes, well, we, er 
DOCTOR: You know, all this is very surprising. That's a Mark 4! 
MONK: Yes, yes, indeed. 
VICKI: Is that later than yours, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: Oh! I forgot all about it. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Forgot? Forgot what, child? 
VICKI: Doctor. Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: We haven't got a time machine any more. 
DOCTOR: Haven't we now? Oh, I say. Well, I wonder what that's supposed to mean? 
VICKI: Well, you know, you know we left it on the beach. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I remember very well, yes. It so happens that I was there at the time. My dear, I may appear a little half witted at times, but I 
VICKI: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh! 
VICKI: The tide came in. 
DOCTOR: Oh, is that all, my child. 
STEVEN: Well, isn't that enough? 
DOCTOR: The water cannot affect the Tardis. It won't wash away. It'll still be there when the tide goes down. Now stop fretting, my dear. Well, I must confess, er, I do congratulate you. It's a splendid machine. Although I do note there's been quite a few changes? 
MONK: Oh, yes, indeed, Doctor. In fact this one is fitted with the automatic drift control. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I see, yes, of course. And, er, thereby you can suspend yourself in space with absolute safety. 
MONK: Precisely, Doctor. By the way, I tried to get into your police box but the door was locked. What type's yours, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Mind your own business. 
STEVEN: Look, I take it you both come from the same place, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I regret that we do, but I would say that I am fifty years earlier. Now when are you going to answer my questions? 
MONK: Which questions? 
DOCTOR: The reason for this deliberate destruction. 
MONK: I, I want to improve things. 
DOCTOR: Improve things? Improve things, yes, that's good. Very good. Improve what, for instance? 
MONK: Well, for instance, Harold, King Harold, I know he'd be a good king. There wouldn't be all those wars in Europe, those claims over France went on for years and years. With peace the people'd be able to better themselves. With a few hints and tips from me they'd be able to have jet airliners by 1320! Shakespeare'd be able to put Hamlet on television. 
DOCTOR: He'd do what? 
MONK: The play Hamlet on television. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, quite so, yes, of course, I do know the medium. 
STEVEN: Were you going to kill the Vikings? 
MONK: Yes, yes, I was. You see, if I didn't, then King 
DOCTOR: What are we going to do with this fellow? What can we do with this man? He's utterly irresponsible. He wants to destroy the whole pattern of world history. 
(The Monk runs out of his Tardis) 
VICKI: Steven! Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh, quick, quick!

[Chapel]

(The Monk is grabbed by Ulf and Sven) 
MONK: Long live King Hardrada! Those are your enemies, there. Quick!

[Village]

WULNOTH: The old man who journeyed here spoke of a Viking invasion descending on us. And the Monk asked us to light beacon fires on the clifftops. 
EDITH: The old man spoke the truth. He had no reason to lie. 
WULNOTH: Fires on the clifftops would guide the ships in to land. Viking ships! 
EDITH: We know and respect the monastery as a place of worship. But what of a Viking spy who passes himself off as a monk? Look! Eldred! 
ELDRED: The monastery 
WULNOTH: What of it? What have you seen? 
ELDRED: Vikings. There are Vikings hiding there. 
EDITH: Is that enough? Do you need more proof? 
MEN: No, no. 
WULNOTH: Arm yourselves! We know how to treat the raiders!

[Corridor]

(The Monk has Ulf and Sven carrying the ammunition box) 
MONK: Come along, come along, if we want to send signals to your ships, we mustn't delay like this, you know. 
ULF: What are these things? 
MONK: They are, er, they're charms, my son, to guide your ships to sheltered waters. Come along. I know you don't understand, but believe me, your ships will know they're there!

[Chapel]

(Our heroes have been bound hand and foot) 
STEVEN: I can't find a sharp enough stone anywhere. Those Vikings sure know how to tie knots. 
VICKI: It looks as though that Monk's going to get away with it after all. 
STEVEN: Yes, but he can't, can he? I don't know much about history but I do know that William the Conqueror did win the Battle of Hastings. 
VICKI: Up till now he did. If the Monk changes it, I suppose our memories will change as well. 
STEVEN: What about the history books? 
VICKI: That's all right. They're not written yet. They'll just write and print the new version. 
STEVEN: But that means that the exact minute, the exact second that he does it, every history book, every, well, the whole future of every year and time on Earth will change, just like that and nobody'll know that it has? 
VICKI: I suppose that's what I'm trying to say. 
STEVEN: Well, there's more to this time travelling than meets the eye. What's the matter with the Doctor? He's not gone to sleep, has he? 
VICKI: Doctor, are you awake? 
DOCTOR: Wide awake, my dear. As a matter of fact, I was just turning over in my mind what we're going to do with this Monk fellow. He won't listen. He's determined to have his own way. He's got to be stopped. He must be stopped!

[Monastery Entrance]

MONK: Come along, come along, come on. Yes, yes, they are rather heavy, aren't they, but they're a sort of special charm, you understand? 
ULF: And where are we taking them? 
MONK: To the clifftop. Now come along. I won't be stopped. Hurry, I'll open the door for you. There. Come.

[Outside the Monastery]

(Where they are confronted by the armed villagers and chased back inside. The Monk hides behind the doors then runs outside, and everyone follows him)

[Chapel]

(Edith unties the Doctor) 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, thank you. Thank you indeed. Oh, it's a good thing for us that you decided to make a search. 
EDITH: Oh, without your help, we'd never have known the Monk was a Viking spy, would we? 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, the Monk, now was he caught? 
EDITH: Now Wulnoth and the others will not let him escape, nor the two Vikings that are with him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, no doubt they'll catch up with him and the rest of them. But, that Monk you know, still worries me. I think he's got some tricks left up his sleeve. 
EDITH: Where are you going to now? 
DOCTOR: Oh, we shall continue with our travels. 
EDITH: Oh, you must come back to the village with us before you go so we can bid you farewell. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, certainly, certainly, but we have one or two things to do here at the monastery first. But, we don't want to delay you. We'll follow on. 
(Edith leaves) 
DOCTOR: What a charming woman. Charming. Well now, you two, come along. We've got a lot to do. 
STEVEN: Well, such as what? 
VICKI: Shall we go back to the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: You know we can't do that, my child, not until we stop this time meddler. Have either of you got a pencil and paper on you? 
VICKI: No. 
STEVEN: No, afraid not. 
DOCTOR: Well now, be a good fellow and go into the machine and try and find one. 
STEVEN: Yes, okay, Doc. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
STEVEN: Tor. 
VICKI: Who are you going to write to? 
DOCTOR: To the Monk, of course. Who else?

[Forest]

MONK: Here. this way. Behind that tree there, there's an old well. We can hide there, quick! 
(He sends Ulf and Sven off one way, and goes the other) 
SVEN: There's no well there! 
ULF: Where's he gone? 
(And they're surrounded)

[The Monk's Tardis]

(The Doctor finds a particular component in the underside of the console, and gets a shock from it) 
DOCTOR: Oh! Mr. Taylor! Where are you with that string, dear boy? 
STEVEN: Here you are Doctor. I found some. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious me, come along. 
VICKI: What's that thing under there, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Now keep your nose out, my child, never mind. Did you hear what I said? Keep your nose away. Do you want to get a shock? This is a very dangerous business. Now keep still, all of you. Tie this in a knot. 
(He ties the string onto the component) 
DOCTOR: Now, the vibrations. Ticklish. Get back, get back! Now, you two, go outside. I'll follow in a minute. 
VICKI: But Doctor, what exactly are you doing? 
DOCTOR: Don't, please, ask me questions. Go child! Outside! 
STEVEN: Well, what are you trying to do? 
(Steven gets a Look, and leaves, as the Doctor carefully plays out the string.)

[Chapel]

VICKI: Is he coming out yet? 
STEVEN: Yes, yes, here he is. 
DOCTOR: Now, back. Elbow room, please. Now keep still. We're not out of the wood yet. 
(He carefully pulls on the string and out comes the chosen component) 
DOCTOR: Ah, there it is! I've done it, I've done it, I've done it. 
STEVEN: Well, nothing's happened, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hasn't it? Hasn't it, my dear boy? 
VICKI: Come on, aren't you going to tell us? 
DOCTOR: Yes, sometime, my dear, sometime. Here, put that in your pocket. Quite safe. 
(The Doctor puts a paper on top of the altar.)
VICKI: Oh, is that the letter you wrote. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and 
VICKI: To the Monk. 
DOCTOR: Keep your hands off it, young lady. I don't want you nosing into peoples personal and private correspondence. Gracious me. Well, I think we've finished here. Now, lets go. 
STEVEN: Back to the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Yes, certainly, back to the Tardis. Yes, come along.

[Clifftop]

DOCTOR: There it is, my dear. There's the Tardis. Safe and sound. Didn't I tell you so? 
VICKI: Oh, am I glad to see that old police box again. 
DOCTOR: Oh, glad indeed. Well, we must start climbing down the cliff and get aboard as soon as we can. There's going to be an invasion shortly. 
STEVEN: What? You mean any minute now the Viking fleet's going to sail past here? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my boy, yes. And history will be 
DOCTOR + VICKI: Allowed to take its natural course. 
STEVEN: You know, I'm beginning to like the idea of being a crew member on a time machine. 
VICKI: A crew member? You'll be lucky. He's the crew. We're just the passengers. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and both very welcome ones, my dear. Come along, come along. Come on, come on. 
STEVEN: It's a heck of a way down. Wish we had a pair of wings.

[Monastery Entrance]

(The Monk runs in, breathless, and bars the door) 
MONK: Oh. Oh, I'm getting too old for this sort of thing. It's ridiculous.

[Chapel]

MONK: Yes, I was right. They're gone. Well, I suppose I'd better be on my way again too. 
(He sees the letter on the altar) 
MONK: The Doctor. (reads) My dear fellow, I'm sure will you excuse me but I didn't want to say goodbye, as you are obviously going to be very busy for some time. He's right there. Just in case you still idea's about your master plan, I've taken precautions to stop your time meddling. How could he stop a Mark 4? Possibly one day in the future, when you've learnt your lesson, I shall return and release you. Release me? Ha! Me? Oh, the old fool. I wonder what he meant by release me? Well, I'll be going. 
(But he can't get in. His Tardis is now the size of the altar. It's no longer bigger inside than outside.) 
MONK: Ah! Ah! What's he done? He's taken my dimensional control! He's ruined my time machine! I'm, I'm marooned. Marooned! In 1066. Oh, Doctor. Doctor! Doctor! 
(Down on the beach, the Tardis dematerialises.

[Tardis]

(Vicki is giving Steven a haircut. The Doctor is busy at the controls.) 
VICKI: Arrived, have we? 
DOCTOR: We have, my dear. 
STEVEN: Good. Where? 
DOCTOR: Well, we should know about that when we have a look at the scanner, shan't we. Now, you can both take a look. 
STEVEN: Where are we, Doctor? Is it a planet you recognise? 
VICKI: Keep still, you nuisance! It's 
STEVEN: I just want to know where we are. 
DOCTOR: Quiet, both of you, will you?! Listen. Listen. 
STEVEN: Listen to what? I can't hear a thing. 
DOCTOR: Exactly. Exactly. There isn't a sound out there. Not a sound! Just silence. 
(The Doctor reexamines the Tardis' instruments. Everything seems to be in satisfactory working order.) 
DOCTOR: Well, the atmospheric pressure's quite normal. Oxygen, temperature, radiation. It's all quite normal. I wonder. Hmm. I wonder if it's possible to have a planet so obviously conducive to life and yet without any? 
VICKI: Well, I've finished chopping this fellow. Could we go out and see? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I don't see why not, my child. It appears absolutely deserted. As a matter of fact, I think we shall get some long-deserved, undisturbed peace for once. 
(On a rocky slope above the Tardis, a squat dome-shaped machine appears and moves towards the ship. Steven is more concerned with his new haircut.) 
STEVEN: Not bad. It's a bit amateurish, really. 
VICKI: Oh, come on. 
STEVEN: Hey, you know, there might be a lake or a river around, Doctor. Do you fancy a swim? 
DOCTOR: My dear young man, this isn't a joy ride. This is a scientific expedition. 
STEVEN: Oh, come off it, Doctor. You can't be scientific all the time. Anyway, you look as if you could do with a good wash-down. 
VICKI: What, get him in cold water? You'll be lucky. 
DOCTOR: From past experience, we must always be on our guard. 
STEVEN: Yes, well I'm prepared to take the risk. 
(Outside, the robot reaches the Tardis and collides with it.) 
VICKI: What's that? 
STEVEN: Well, are we all ready, then? 
DOCTOR: Shh, shh! 
(The robot bumps into the Tardis again, then slowly turns to the right, remaining in contact with the outside of the ship, feeling its way along the side. At the corner, it stops, then nudges its way round and proceeds along the next side.) 
STEVEN: What's going on? 
VICKI: Something is feeling it's way around the ship. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Like something trying to discover by touch. Something blind. 
VICKI: It's just reaching this corner now. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it is blind. 
VICKI: Whatever it is. 
DOCTOR: As you say, my dear, whatever it is. 
(Completing its circuit of the Tardis, the machine stops. After a moment it moves away from the ship, coming into view on the Tardis scanner. A light on top of the machine begins to flash.) 
DOCTOR: Just look, now. Now look, that's something quite different, isn't it? 
STEVEN: You know, Doctor, it looks to me as if it's sending some kind of message. What do you think? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, it might be that. To its controller, whoever it might be. 
STEVEN: Yes, or whatever it might be. 
VICKI: Oh, look. It's got a sort of chumbley movement. 
STEVEN: Chumbley? 
VICKI: Yes, you know, all sort of chumbley. 
DOCTOR: It's gone now. 
STEVEN: Bang goes my swimming. 
VICKI: Oh, it doesn't take much to put you off. A sweet little thing like that? 
DOCTOR: You know, I must be wrong, child. There is life out there. Yes, a very intelligent, highly intelligent life, to build machines like that. 
VICKI: Chumbley. 
DOCTOR: Well, Chumbley, if you like, my child. 
STEVEN: You know, Doctor, that thing might have been dangerous. What are we going to do about it? 
DOCTOR: I'm going to find out. Come along, my child, and bring my stick.

[Planet surface]

DOCTOR: Oh, it's delightful. Yes, thank you. Just about the right amount of oxygen. 
VICKI: Mmm. I can smell flowers. 
DOCTOR: Oh, indeed, how delightful. Well, there's one thing child, there's no Chumblies about. 
STEVEN: Vicki. Look at this. 
VICKI: Three suns? 
STEVEN: Yes, I wonder which one we're revolving around. 
VICKI: Oh look, there's those flowers that I could smell. Hey, they're roses. No, they're not. Not quite roses, but almost. 
DOCTOR: This silence reminds of the planet Xeros. 
VICKI: You don't think we've jumped the time track again, do you? 
DOCTOR: No, no, my dear, not again, not again, but it's so quiet. 
STEVEN: It's almost too quiet. 
VICKI: Doctor! A Chumbley! 
(The Chumbley points a rod-like appendage at them from beneath its dome.) 
STEVEN: That one looks pretty vicious, Doctor. Is that a gun? 
DOCTOR: Stand still, otherwise we all might be killed. We come in peace. We don't wish you any harm. 
VICKI: He can't speak. 
DOCTOR: No, but by the look of that thing sticking out in front, it's unmistakably like a speaker to me. 
VICKI: It's trying to talk. Steven, look out! 
DOCTOR: You dumb fool! 
STEVEN: I was only trying to get 
DOCTOR: Oh, indeed. That was very noble of you, indeed. Now you've put the thing on its guard. Yes, it's interesting, it's fascinating. Did you notice that it didn't do anything until you made a noise? 
STEVEN: Yes, it is blind. 
VICKI: But it can hear. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, and very accurately. You know, I believe it can locate us by some form of heat wave, as it were. 
(The Chumbley moves towards the trio. It reaches the Doctor and nudges him gently forward.) 
STEVEN: Do you get that feeling that it wants us to go somewhere, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Stand still. Don't let it move you. 
(After a moment, the Chumbley aims it's weapon at some nearby vegetation, and fires. The plants burst into flames.) 
DOCTOR: As neat a threat as ever I saw. 
VICKI: What was it? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's some kind of light ray, very powerful and dangerous, I would say. I think we're better do what the thing wants. 
STEVEN: Yes, come on Vicki. 
(The three travellers turn in the direction indicated, and move off across the plain. The Chumbley follows close behind. A short way ahead, two female figures are lying in wait behind a rocky outcrop. These are Drahvins. They have long blonde hair and might be considered attractive were it not for the total lack of warmth in their faces, their rigid features showing no emotion. They wear plain high-necked green and white uniforms, and each carries a large gun. As the Chumbley and its prisoners draw nearer, Drahvin 2 sets down her weapon and grasps one side of a metal mesh at her feet. Her companion takes the other side of the mesh. As the Chumbley passes beneath them, the Drahvins hurl the mesh down on top of it. The Chumbley's domes instantly collapse down one on top of one another. It is immobilised.) 
DOCTOR: What's that? 
VICKI: Who are they? 
STEVEN: I have no idea, but aren't they a lovely surprise. 
DRAHVIN 1: We are the Drahvin. 
STEVEN: And very nice too. 
DOCTOR: What might the Drahvins be? 
DRAHVIN 1: We are from the planet Drahva, in Galaxy Four. 
STEVEN: Yes, well you seem to have put a pretty effective stop to this thing. 
DRAHVIN 1: As long as the metal mesh covers it, the control waves cannot reach it. 
VICKI: What do you want? 
DRAHVIN 2: We came to rescue you from the machine. 
STEVEN: Why? 
DRAHVIN 2: Maaga will tell you. 
STEVEN: Maaga? 
DRAHVIN 1: Our leader. 
DOCTOR: Why can't you tell us? 
DRAHVIN 1: Our mission was to rescue you. We have done that. We have no other instructions except to take you to Maaga. 
DRAHVIN 2: We do nothing until a leader speaks. 
DOCTOR: I see. 
DRAHVIN 2: You will come now. 
VICKI: Doctor, I don't trust them. I don't think we should go with them. 
DRAHVIN 1: If you stay here, more machines will come. They will capture you and take you to the Rills. 
DOCTOR: The Rills. Are these the people that control these things? 
DRAHVIN 2: They are not people. 
DRAHVIN 1: They are things. 
DRAHVIN 2: They crawl. 
DRAHVIN 1: They murder. 
VICKI: Murder? 
DRAHVIN 2: They have already killed one of us. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I should like to meet these Rills. 
STEVEN: And be killed, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: It's only what they say, and who are they? 
STEVEN: At least they stopped the Chumbley. Doesn't that prove something? 
DOCTOR: Yes, all right. Well, perhaps you'd better take us to this Maaga, this leader, whatever it is. 
VICKI: Doctor! More Chumblies! 
(Off in the distance, four more Chumblies are moving in a convoy towards them. As the robots come closer, the Drahvins react in panic.) 
DRAHVIN 1: The mesh! 
DRAHVIN 2: It's caught! 
DOCTOR: They're all magnetised so that you can't get the top off. 
VICKI: They're getting close! 
DOCTOR: Goodness gracious! 
STEVEN: It won't come off. Let's leave it. 
DRAHVIN 2: We were instructed not to lose it. 
STEVEN: Were you instructed to be killed as well? 
DRAHVIN 1: We must go! 
DOCTOR: Come! Come! 
VICKI: All right, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Quickly! Quickly! 
(The pursuing Chumblies move in, and encircle the Chumbley trapped beneath the metal mesh. One of them stands before it, then extends a claw arm, grasps the mesh and pulls it away from the inert machine. Instantly, the Chumbley comes back to life. The Chumblies set off in pursuit of the Doctor and his party, who are heading to the Drahvin spaceship.)

[Outside the spaceship]

(Exhausted, the fugitives finally reach the ship.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious! 
VICKI: Are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think so. It's all this physical exercise at my age. 
DRAHVIN 2: They're nearly here. Quickly, inside.

[Spaceship]

DRAHVIN 1: Close external door. 
DRAHVIN 3: Close external door. 
STEVEN: Well, it was a decent space ship once. 
DOCTOR: It's pretty backward now, isn't it? Yes, it's almost fossilised.
STEVEN: Oh I don't know, it's got one or two good features. 
VICKI: We only just beat those Chumblies. They're still outside. 
DOCTOR: Are we safe here? 
DRAHVIN 1: Yes. They cannot enter. 
DRAHVIN 2: Silence. Maaga is coming. 
DOCTOR: Maaga. We're back there again. 
MAAGA: Report. 
DRAHVIN 1: Mission accomplished. We have brought the prisoners. 
VICKI: Prisoners? 
MAAGA: And the metal mesh? 
DRAHVIN 1: It stopped the machine. 
MAAGA: Good. 
DRAHVIN 1: We could not get the mesh back. 
MAAGA: What? 
DRAHVIN 1: It became affixed to the machine. 
STEVEN: She's got them pretty frightened, hasn't she, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, madam, the young lady speaks the truth. The Chumblies are magnetised. 
MAAGA: I will deal with you both later. Sit. I'm sorry to have kept you waiting. Won't you sit down? 
DOCTOR: Yes, thank you, I will. 
MAAGA: I have to hear the report first. 
DOCTOR: Oh, naturally. 
MAAGA: It is necessary when you're at war. 
STEVEN: At war? 
MAAGA: With the Rills and their machines. 
VICKI: The Chumblies! 
MAAGA: This is a fight to the death for existence itself. 
DOCTOR: I see. 
MAAGA: in which one of us will be obliterated. 
DOCTOR: Oh, as bad as that? 
MAAGA: Yes. So bad that it is conceivable that you, too, will be obliterated. 
DOCTOR: Oh, come now, there's no need to exaggerate. 
MAAGA: It's no exaggeration. 
VICKI: You want to kill us, don't you? You want to. 
MAAGA: When a planet disintegrates, nothing survives. 
DOCTOR: Disintegrates? This planet? 
MAAGA: Yes, it's in its last moments of life. Soon it will explode. 
DOCTOR: When? 
MAAGA: In fourteen dawns time. 
STEVEN: Look, how do you know? How can you be so certain? 
MAAGA: The Rills told us. That is why they're repairing their spaceship, so that they can escape. 
DOCTOR: Well, that sounds reasonable enough to me. 
MAAGA: We must capture that spaceship from them. 
STEVEN: What for? This is a spaceship as well, isn't it? 
MAAGA: Yes, but it cannot fly. The Rills shot us down. We cannot move. 
STEVEN: You, you don't belong here? 
MAAGA: No. Nor do the Rills. There is no life on this planet. We come from Drahva. Some four hundred dawns ago, we were investigating this particular section of the galaxy. We were looking for a planet such as this, capable of supporting life so that we might colonise it. There are too many of us on Drahva. 
STEVEN: All women? 
MAAGA: Women? 
DOCTOR: Yes, feminine. Ah, female. 
MAAGA: Oh, we have a small number of men, as many as we need. The rest we kill. They consume valuable food and fulfill no particular function. 
(Maaga indicates the two Drahvins) 
MAAGA: And these are not what you would call human. They are cultivated in test tubes. We have very good scientists. I am a living being. They are products, and inferior products. Grown for a purpose and capable of nothing more. 
STEVEN: Grown for what purpose? 
MAAGA: To fight. To kill. 
DOCTOR: Yours must be a very interesting civilisation. You attacked the Rills? 
MAAGA: No. We were in space above this planet when we saw a ship such as we had never seen before. We did not know it, but it was a Rill ship. It fired on us, and we crashed. But before we did, we managed to fire back so that they'd crash, too. On landing they killed one of my soldiers. 
STEVEN: What are they like, these Rills? 
MAAGA: Disgusting! 
DOCTOR: Well, that's no description, no description at all. 
MAAGA: That's all I'll say. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I'm beginning to understand. 
STEVEN: Yes, so am I, Doctor. This planet's about to explode, the Rills have managed to repair their ship in time so they can escape. You haven't, so you want their ship. 
MAAGA: We have no desire to be here when this planet ceases to exist. 
DRAHVIN 3: Machine approaching! 
(The Chumbley outside is moving rapidly towards the Drahvin spaceship.) 
MAAGA: To your stations. Switch off the outside radio. 
VICKI: What are they doing now? 
STEVEN: They're going to have another go at the Chumblies, by the look of things. 
DOCTOR: Switch off the outside radio? Why, I wonder? 
MAAGA: They send the machines to tell us lies. We do not wish to hear them. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, madam! You may not but I'd like to hear it. 
MAAGA: It's not good for my soldiers. 
DOCTOR: Ah, I see. It's stopped. 
MAAGA: Yes. Now it is sending its message. Fire! 
(The Chumbley is hit by a burst of flame. It collapses its domes and is still. After a moment, it raises them again, signals, turns and chumbles off.) 
DOCTOR: You didn't do it very much damage, did you? 
MAAGA: My only intention was to scare it off. We've succeeded. To your places. 
DOCTOR: And you haven't destroyed one Chumbley yet. 
MAAGA: We will. 
DOCTOR: You know, I think you rather underestimate the Rills. Why should they tell you that this planet is going to die? 
MAAGA: They were trying to tempt us on board their spaceship so that they may kill us. 
STEVEN: You know, it seems to me as if they offered you help. 
MAAGA: That is what they maintain. 
VICKI: They might have been speaking the truth. They might have meant it. 
DOCTOR: On the other hand, it might have been a pack of lies. 
MAAGA: What do you mean? 
DOCTOR: Well this planet could last another million years. 
MAAGA: Yes, but we have no way of proving. 
DOCTOR: I have. I'm a scientist. 
MAAGA: Very well. I should be grateful if you would find out. 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you, thank you. Well, I'm afraid we shall have to go back to my ship. 
MAAGA: Oh, wait! You cannot all go. 
DOCTOR: Oh, but why? 
VICKI: Prisoners, are we? 
MAAGA: Of course not. But if you should encounter the machines 
STEVEN: What of it? 
MAAGA: I could not guarantee to rescue you again. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you worry too much! 
MAAGA: I shall feel easier if one of you remain behind. 
VICKI: I'll stay. 
DOCTOR: But my dear! 
VICKI: I'll stay. You'll need Steven anyway if you bump into the Chumblies again. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, very well. Young man, you and I will go. 
DRAHVIN: Door opening! 
STEVEN: We won't be long, Vicki. I promise we won't get lost.

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor and Steven make their way back to the Tardis, but discover to their horror that they've been beaten to it.) 
STEVEN: Chumblies! 
(Crouching down, they observe a Chumbley trying to gain entry to the Tardis. A second Chumbley joins it, holding some kind of drill.) 
STEVEN: Can they get in Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, they'd have to be pretty well advanced to break my force barrier. 
STEVEN: How do you know they aren't? 
DOCTOR: Hmm?

[Spaceship]

(Vicki has been left on her own in the Drahvin living quarters. She's troubled, unable to quell the nagging suspicion that Maaga is hiding something. Hearing raised voices in the next compartment, Vicki crosses to the bulkhead and presses her ear against it. 
MAAGA: To lose the mesh was gross incompetence. It was our only weapon against the machines. If we lose to the Rills it will be because of you. You want that, do you? 
DRAHVINS: (groans, groans) 
MAAGA: You want to be captured by those creeping, revolting, green monsters? You want their slimy claws to close about your necks? 
DRAHVINS: No, no Maaga, no. 
MAAGA: You fools. You fools.

[Outside the Tardis]

DOCTOR: I wonder what they're up to, eh? 
STEVEN: Trying something else by the look of it. 
(One of the Chumblies aims it's light beam at the lock of the Tardis doors. The ray has no effect. Backing off, the machines transmit a brief message then chumble away. As soon as they've gone, Steven and the Doctor emerge from their hiding place.) 
DOCTOR: There, you see, my boy? Look. Not a scratch. Not a scratch.
STEVEN: Yes, well, are we going in or not, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I certainly excelled myself with that force barrier. 
STEVEN: Yes, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, now wait a minute. I think they've all gone to bed. Well, it's a very good thing I brought you around, young man, to tell me what I'm supposed to be doing. 
STEVEN: Yes, you're so right, Doctor.

[Tardis]

(Inside the Tardis, the Doctor moves across to his astral map and activates it. The machine lights up and the Doctor adjusts various dials, checking the readings with growing concern.) 
STEVEN: Well, Doctor? Will this planet explode? 
DOCTOR: The Rills were quite right. 
STEVEN: We've got to get off the planet. 
DOCTOR: Yes, if the Drahvins let us go. 
STEVEN: We've got to make that sure they do. 
DOCTOR: They need our help with the Rills! Why do you think they've held Vicki back? 
STEVEN: Okay, but we've got to get off here somehow! 
DOCTOR: It's imperative that we leave at once. 
STEVEN: Why is that that? The Drahvins did say fourteen dawns. 
DOCTOR: Two dawns! Tomorrow is the last day this planet will ever see. 
Episode Two - Trap of Steel

[Tardis]

(With Vicki still a captive of the Drahvins, Steven comes to a decision.) 
STEVEN: We've got to get back, get Vicki away from the Drahvins. 
(Reaching the door, Steven spots a Chumbley outside.) 
STEVEN: The doors, Doctor! Can we see the scanner? 
(The Chumbley is moving towards the Tardis carrying a large black tube-shaped object.) 
STEVEN: What's that it's got? 
DOCTOR: I wish I knew. 
(Reaching the Tardis, the Chumbley drops the vial and then retreats to a distance of a few yards.) 
STEVEN: Perhaps it's just going to stand guard there. 
DOCTOR: No. No, it's waiting for something. 
STEVEN: But what? 
DOCTOR: I can't quite see.
STEVEN: Doctor, I think it's holding a couple of wires. Look out! 
(BOOM) 
STEVEN: Doctor? Doctor, where are you? 
(Steven spots the Doctor lying behind the console, and goes over to help him to his feet. As he does so, there's a second explosion.) 
STEVEN: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you. Oh! Oh! I think Guy Fawkes must have been resurrected. 
STEVEN: Oh, please, Doctor! You all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well. Are you all right dear boy? 
STEVEN: Yes, fine, thanks. Do you think it's done any damage? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. no, no, no, no. It'd take more than that to get in here. 
STEVEN: It's all right, Doctor. I think it's just come to investigate. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, it's going to be disappointed, isn't it. Look, you see? There they go. Look, away into the distance, empty-handed. 
STEVEN: Yes, they've given up. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, unless they come back with a piece more trouble, I wonder. Come on, we must go. So little time. 
STEVEN: Two dawns, hmm? 
DOCTOR: Two dawns. Come on, come on!

[Spaceship]

(Back in the Drahvin spaceship, Maaga joins Vicki at a table in the living quarters.) 
MAAGA: Are you sure you won't eat? 
VICKI: No. Thank you. 
MAAGA: It's very good. 
VICKI: It looks like leaves to me. 
MAAGA: It is leaves. 
VICKI: Leaves? Is that what you eat? 
MAAGA: Of course. 
VICKI: Yuk. 
MAAGA: Everything that lives must eat. 
VICKI: They've been gone ages. It must be at least two hours. 
MAAGA: They'll be back soon. 
VICKI: Not if a Chumbley gets them first. 
MAAGA: They won't allow themselves to be caught. They're much too worried about you. 
VICKI: That's why you've kept me here, isn't it. Isn't it? 
MAAGA: You're safe here. 
VICKI: Safe. 
MAAGA: Exactly. 
VICKI: Look, can't I go and look for them? 
MAAGA: If they're not back soon, we will go and look for them. 
VICKI: But let me go, now. 
MAAGA: No, I can't let you do that, because you might all escape in your spaceship. And we need your help. 
VICKI: Whether we want to give it or not. 
MAAGA: Oh, I'm sure that all of you want to help us.

[Outside the spaceship]

STEVEN: Well, we've made it Doctor. You know, this is a pretty strange kind of spaceship. 
DOCTOR: Are you talking to yourself, dear boy? 
STEVEN: I was just saying that it's a strange kind of spaceship. Old-fashioned. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. I don't think much of it. It's not very well advanced, is it? In fact, as you say, it's old-fashioned. Yes. I don't think these Drahvins are very intelligent, do you? 
STEVEN: Yeah, but it's the metal, I mean, Doctor, you know. Well, it's inferior. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, it's tough, but, it's not impregnable. No, it's very common metal really. Yes, its it's nothing unusual, nothing unusual. Well, I suggest that we go in instead of standing around here admiring the scenery. Come along. 
STEVEN: Well, what are you talking about, Doctor? It's you who stopped to fiddle around on the outside. 
DOCTOR: But you brought up the subject. Now don't argue, please. Don't argue. I've never heard such rubbish. 
(They knock on the airlock door.)

[Spaceship]

MAAGA: Your friends, safe, you see? 
VICKI: No thanks to you, though, is it? 
STEVEN: All right Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, yes. 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor, you're all right! 
DOCTOR: Yes, my child, I'm all right. 
VICKI: But, you were away so long. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, we'd have been a lot quicker if it hadn't been for the Doc. We got held up by a Chumbley. 
DOCTOR: They tried to blow us up inside the Tardis. 
MAAGA: They didn't succeed? 
DOCTOR: Well of course they didn't. My ship's not made of tin like this old trash. Oh, good gracious me! Seems if I cough too loudly, the whole thing'd fall to pieces. 
MAAGA: It served its purpose. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes. Whatever that might be. 
(Maaga closes the main airlock doors.) 
DOCTOR: Is that necessary? 
MAAGA: We have to protect ourselves against the machines. 
DOCTOR: Hmm. 
MAAGA: Did you find out about this planet? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
MAAGA: Will it explode? 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid so. 
MAAGA: When? 
DOCTOR: Exactly when the Rills said it would. In fourteen dawns time. 
MAAGA: Fourteen dawns. 
VICKI: Well, we should go, shouldn't we? We should 
MAAGA: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
MAAGA: Will you help us? 
DOCTOR: To do what, exactly? 
MAAGA: To capture the Rill spaceship so that we can escape. 
DOCTOR: And how do I do that? What happens then? 
MAAGA: What do you mean? 
DOCTOR: Well, I mean, what happens to the Rills? 
MAAGA: Well, they remain on this planet. 
VICKI: To be blown up? 
MAAGA: They are murderers! 
STEVEN: Why couldn't you take them off with you? 
MAAGA: Because they're evil. You only have to see them to know. Evil! 
DOCTOR: We only have your word for that. In any case, I can't help you. 
MAAGA: Why not? 
DOCTOR: In the first place, madam, I never kill anything. Neither do my friends. 
MAAGA: Well, either the Rills die or we do. 
DOCTOR: Or, as the young man suggests, why don't you both go off together? 
MAAGA: Impossible! 
STEVEN: Come on, what's so impossible about it? Have you ever tried being friendly? 
DOCTOR: Yes, a very good question, dear boy. 
VICKI: It seems to me you want to be enemies. 
MAAGA: The situation was forced upon us. 
STEVEN: Or maybe they killed your soldier by mistake. 
MAAGA: There's no mistake about it. 
STEVEN: Well, you seem pretty sure for someone who was half unconscious after the crash. 
MAAGA: You, too, doubt my word. 
VICKI: We'd be pretty stupid not to. 
DOCTOR: Yes, all these objections sum up mine. It's none of our business. It's impossible. I'm afraid we can't help you. And it does appear to me that none of you have tried to help yourselves. 
STEVEN: Too busy fighting. 
MAAGA: You will not change your mind? 
DOCTOR: No. 
MAAGA: This is your last chance. 
DOCTOR: Very likely. 
(Maaga pulls a weapon from her belt.) 
MAAGA: You may not realise it, but at first I point this at your hand and then I pull the trigger and 
(Steven leaps at Maaga. The Drahvin leader is unexpectedly strong and retains her grip on the gun. They wrestle to and fro as Vicki and the Doctor watch in consternation. Just as Steven is gaining the upper hand, two Drahvins enter, guns drawn.) 
VICKI: Steven! 
(Steven gives up. 
DOCTOR: A very good attempt, my boy. Never mind. 
MAAGA: You'll help us now? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I don't seem to have much chance. 
MAAGA: You have none whatsoever. The Rills are repairing their spaceship. They have fourteen dawns in which to complete it. 
(The Doctor and Steven exchange a look) 
MAAGA: It is fourteen, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, er, yes, quite. 
MAAGA: You sure? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite sure. 
MAAGA: Suddenly I don't believe you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, but why should I lie? 
MAAGA: I don't know. To trick us or something. When is this planet due to explode? 
DOCTOR: Fourteen dawns time. 
MAAGA: Very well, we shall kill the girl. 
(At Maaga's signal, two Drahvins seize Vicki and a third points a gun at her.) 
DOCTOR: Two dawns. 
MAAGA: As soon as that? Well, you'll have to work quickly. The Rill spaceship is that way. You will capture it for us. 
DOCTOR: It may not be ready yet. 
STEVEN: If it were, they'd have taken off by now. 
MAAGA: I'm sure the Doctor can cope with that. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you have great faith in me, haven't you. 
MAAGA: Yes, I have, because I shall keep one of you here. I shall keep the girl. 
STEVEN: Oh no you won't. You'll keep me. 
MAAGA: I said I shall keep 
STEVEN: Do you want our help or don't you? 
DOCTOR: You will do as the young man suggests. 
MAAGA: Very well, we'll keep him. 
DOCTOR: Come along, Vicki. We have very little time. Madam, do I begin by walking through this? 
(The Doctor waves at the locked airlock doors. They open.) 
STEVEN: Do you honestly believe that they can capture the Rills' spaceship all by themselves? 
MAAGA: Either they succeed, or we all die together.

[Outside the spaceship]

(Outside the Drahvin spaceship, the Doctor stops to gaze pensively up at the sky.) 
VICKI: Doctor, come on. What are you standing there for? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I was just ruminating about the night and day. I was wondering when it was going to get dark, then I just realised that there's three suns on this planet. 
VICKI: What, you don't think they have night here at all? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, they must, my dear, they must, otherwise this Maaga woman wouldn't be talking about dawns. Probably lasts about two hours. 
VICKI: Two hours? 
DOCTOR: You remember when we were captured by those Chumblies? 
VICKI: Yes, I do. 
DOCTOR: That ray gun, why did they use it on the ship? I mean, if the Rills are such enemies of the Drahvins, why don't they just wipe them out? 
VICKI: Maybe their rays can't cut through metal or 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't you believe that, my dear. Don't you believe that for one minute. No, that ray gun could go through this like a piece of paper. 
VICKI: Oh. They don't even seem to have tried. 
DOCTOR: No, it's all very odd, isn't it? Yes, it's very odd. 
VICKI: Come on, Doctor, you said we haven't much time. 
DOCTOR: Oh. Yes, of course, nearly one dawn. Yes, we must start that journey. Are you nervous? 
VICKI: Well, they sounded a bit nasty, didn't they? 
(The Doctor and Vicki begin their journey to the Rill craft, while Steven remains under guard in the Drahvin ship.)

[Inside the spaceship]

(Steven approaches one of his guards, who watches him impassively, and she does not even react or resist when he takes her gun from her. But the gun appears not to work. Bewildered, Steven attempts a hasty and unsuccessful repair before returning it to its owner.) 
STEVEN: Yes, well, it still won't work, but at least it looks prettier now. Can I have some food? 
(The Drahvin guard offers him two small tablets.) 
STEVEN: Is this all there is? 
DRAHVIN 1: That is our food. 
STEVEN: Ugh. Does Maaga eat this? 
DRAHVIN 1: No! She is our leader. 
STEVEN: Well, then I'll have some of what she eats. 
DRAHVIN 1: You cannot. It is food for our leaders only. 
STEVEN: Well, that hardly seems fair, does it? 
DRAHVIN 1: Fair? 
STEVEN: Yeah, I mean that, you know, she should have special food, and you have to eat this? 
DRAHVIN 1: It is food. 
STEVEN: Does Maaga have other special things? 
DRAHVIN 1: She is our leader and has leader's things. 
STEVEN: What leader's things? 
DRAHVIN 1: Her gun. 
STEVEN: Her gun? 
DRAHVIN 1: Her food. A leader's gun can destroy anything. 
STEVEN: What, even the Chumblies? 
DRAHVIN 1: Even the machines. 
STEVEN: Well, then, you know, surely it would be better if you all had these guns. Well, then you wouldn't have to fear the machines. 
DRAHVIN 1: There is only one gun. Maaga has that gun, as she is leader. 
STEVEN: You could take it with you when you went on patrol. 
DRAHVIN 1: Yes. 
STEVEN: Doesn't it seem right that you should? 
DRAHVIN 1: Only if Maaga says so. 
STEVEN: Yes, but I mean, if you took it, and you you went out and you destroyed the machine, Maaga would be pleased? Maaga would be pleased if you destroyed the machine. 
DRAHVIN 1: Yes. 
STEVEN: Well then you should take it. 
DRAHVIN 1: Yes. 
STEVEN: Well, I'll tell you what. You give me your gun, whilst you go and fetch Maaga's, and then we can both fight the machines together. 
DRAHVIN 1: Yes. 
MAAGA: You're trying to be too clever. 
(Unnoticed, Maaga has entered the room) 
MAAGA: You have done badly. You will be punished. This is a prisoner. You must not talk to him. 
DRAHVIN 1: He was talking. 
MAAGA: He was trying to trick you like the machine. 
DRAHVIN 1: I have done wrong. I did not understand. 
MAAGA: Go to your quarters. 
(Drahvin 1 leaves the room, and Maaga turns to address Steven.) 
MAAGA: You must keep out of our way. 
STEVEN: I don't particularly want to be here at all. 
MAAGA: You don't have to be. 
STEVEN: Oh? 
MAAGA: You could easily escape from this planet. 
STEVEN: Oh, could I? 
MAAGA: In your own ship. 
STEVEN: Oh, taking you with me, of course. 
MAAGA: Well, you wouldn't expect us to stay behind. 
STEVEN: No, I suppose not. 
MAAGA: All you have to do is to take us off this planet and you are free. 
STEVEN: What, just like that? 
MAAGA: It's a fair offer. 
STEVEN: Oh, yes, yes. But even assuming I believed you, that on the way you didn't decide that I was eating too much food, there is a snag. 
MAAGA: What's that? 
STEVEN: I can't operate it. I couldn't if I tried. Only the Doctor could do that. It's his ship. Why don't you try making an offer to him? Or is it that you think he might be just a little bit too clever for you? I'm the gullible one, is that it? I'm not much help, am I? 
MAAGA: I could make you help us. 
STEVEN: No, you couldn't. Not even I can do the impossible. So sorry. 
MAAGA: Get over there and stay there! 
STEVEN: That's an order, is it? 
MAAGA: Yes, it is. 
(Steven moves over to the corner Maaga indicates. Frustrated, he sits, then lies down and closes his eyes. Satisfied that he will cause no more trouble, the Drahvin soldiers cross to the table and sit down with Maaga. Eventually, Drahvin 3 breaks the silence.) 
DRAHVIN 3: Maaga. 
MAAGA: What is it? 
DRAHVIN 3: Why do we not kill him now? 
MAAGA: I will let you kill him when I am good and ready.

[Planet surface]

(Out on the surface, the Doctor and Vicki have reached a ridge, from where they can observe several Chumblies patrolling back and forth ahead of them.) 
VICKI: Doctor, we'll never get past those sentries. 
DOCTOR: Fascinating things to watch, ay? I wonder what the principal of the operation is? I suppose it's quite simple once you know.
VICKI: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: How are we going to get past them? 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, yes, that's quite a problem, my child, isn't it. 
VICKI: You're telling me it is. 
DOCTOR: Well, now don't lose patience, you see. Now look, in this case, first we must observe, note, collate, and then conclude. After that, perhaps we can act. 
VICKI: Yeah. Well, with the time we've got you have to all that in ten minutes flat. 
DOCTOR: Shh, shh, shh. Quiet, quiet. 
(Ducking out of sight, they watch a Chumbley pass close by. As a second Chumbley moves past, Vicki picks up a rock and throws it down behind the machine. The Chumbley does not react, and continues on its way.) 
VICKI: That's your answer. 
DOCTOR: What are you doing? 
VICKI: Doctor, I thought 
DOCTOR: Are you trying to get us killed? 
VICKI: Didn't you see? They only pick up sounds in front of them. If we keep immediately behind them, they won't know we're there. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, you may appear to be right, but it's dangerous, and it's very risky! 
VICKI: That was no risk. I noted, observed, collated, concluded, and then I threw the rock. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, yes, yes, quite so, yes, yes. You about finished? This time I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. But, well now, I suppose we've got to make a run for it. 
VICKI: Are you sure you can manage? 
DOCTOR: I think I can drag my aged limbs in some sort of semblance of a run. Go on. 
(Vicki and the Doctor dash towards the Rill ship, careful to remain on the blind side of any Chumblies.)

[Spaceship]

(Meanwhile, on the Drahvin spaceship, Steven is ignored as Maaga takes her soldiers through a weapons drill.) 
MAAGA: Power units off. Guns down. Power unit readings. One? 
DRAHVIN 1: 397. 
MAAGA: Two? 
DRAHVIN 2: 394. 
MAAGA: Three? 
DRAHVIN 3: 386. 
MAAGA: Get it charged, Three. All guns must be perfect. If any one is found defective, the owner will be severely punished. Because soon now, we will use them. I, Maaga, will see to it. Soon now, we will break into the Rills' spaceship, and the Rills, they will all be wiped out.

[Planet surface]

VICKI: So far, so good. 
DOCTOR: Look! That looks like the home of the Rills. 
(The Doctor indicates a bunker-like building carved of rock, with what appears to be a vast black sphere growing from its left side.) 
VICKI: That must be their space ship over there. 
DOCTOR: Yes. And what's that other thing? 
VICKI: It looks like a drill rig. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it does, doesn't it. What could they be drilling for? 
VICKI: Oil? Gas? 
DOCTOR: Yeah. Well, there's only one way to find out. Go on.

[Outside the Rill building]

(The Doctor and Vicki are forced to duck out of sight as a Chumbley emerges from the entrance. After a moment the robot swings round and disappears back inside. Once they're sure that it has gone, the Doctor and Vicki creep forwards to the entrance.) 
VICKI: What on earth will we do if another one of those things comes out? 
DOCTOR: We'd be in trouble. You know, this is a nice piece of building. 
VICKI: It looks very temporary to me. 
DOCTOR: It's most impressive. Yes, most impressive. And what's this, I wonder? You know, I think these Rills are far more advanced than I thought they were,. 
VICKI: It looks like some kind of air purifier. 
DOCTOR: Yes, or some kind of machinery for converting air into something else. Yes, it's most interesting. Can you see anything? 
VICKI: No. 
DOCTOR: I'll lead the way.

[Rill Corridor]

DOCTOR: You know, this looks as though it's been built for the Chumblies. 
VICKI: A Chumbley-shaped corridor. Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: This one is for the Rills. 
DOCTOR: Can you smell anything? 
VICKI: Very faint though, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: What is it? 
VICKI: I don't know, but I feel as though I ought to. 
DOCTOR: Yes, so should I. Come on. 
DOCTOR: Well, I must say, it's an astonishing shape and design. Marvellous work. Marvellous. 
VICKI: That smell's getting stronger, you know. 
DOCTOR: That what? 
VICKI: Shh! 
(They freeze as a Chumbley approaches, and are forced to hide as several more appear.) 
VICKI: Oh, Doctor, I thought they'd heard us. 
DOCTOR: What's it doing, listening or smelling? Come on, Come on.

[Central chamber]

(They emerge into a large central chamber) 
DOCTOR: A spaceship! 
(The Doctor notices that one wall is black, and realises what it must mean.) 
DOCTOR: You can't scratch the metal. Isn't that astounding? Yes, it's far superior, far superior. Wonderful stuff for a spaceship. 
VICKI: Doctor? I know what that smell is now. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
VICKI: Ammonia. 
(At the entrance to the Rill centre, a Chumbley moves into the passageway. VICKI: Doctor? What do you think this thing is here? 
DOCTOR: Well, I should say this is some sort of repair shop. Yes, and that's a what, a Chumbley attachment? 
VICKI: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a revelation, a revelation. 
(Vicki notices a deactivated Chumbley with its domes collapsed, making it look smaller than the others.) 
VICKI: Do you think it's a baby one? 
(The Doctor reaches out and taps the inert Chumbley.) 
DOCTOR: Not awake just yet. 
(They laugh, then Vicki screams.)

Episode Three - Airlock

[Central chamber]

(The Doctor turns to see what has scared Vicki. An alien eye is observing them with curiosity through a window. Meanwhile, a Chumbley is making its way towards the central chamber.) 
DOCTOR: There's a Chumbley coming! Quickly! 
(Dashing to the nearest doorway, the Doctor and Vicki spot a second Chumbley coming down the passage. They turn and run into another tunnel. Behind them, the Chumblies emerge into the central chamber and pause. After a moment they both move into the passage way that the Doctor and Vicki used as their escape route.)

[Passageway].

DOCTOR: Come on. 
VICKI: Come on, Doctor. 
)The Doctor emerges from the Rill central chamber and turns to help Vicki out.) 
DOCTOR: This way. Come on, we'll make it. 
(But an iron grill slams down in front of her, blocking her exit.) 
VICKI: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: I can't move it. It's immovable! Wait, wait, wait. I have an idea. I might be able to sabotage them. Be patient. We know what this machine's for. This is to convert air into ammonia gas. 
VICKI: Doctor, hurry up! 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, have patience child. When I've finished with this machine, I'm sure they will release you. 
VICKI: Never mind about that, release these bars! 
DOCTOR: No! No! That's the last thing we do. This is the thing that gives them the gas to breathe with. 
VICKI: You don't know that for certain. 
DOCTOR: My dear child, the Rills can't go outside. It's a foregone conclusion. 
VICKI: Doctor. 
)Two Chumblies have appeared in the tunnel behind Vicki.) 
VICKI: I think they want me to go with them. 
DOCTOR: Well, I think you you'd better do what they want. 
VICKI: But Doctor, that thing in there, that thing looking out of the window. What? 
DOCTOR: Yes, that was one of the Rills, I suppose. 
VICKI: Doctor, I'm so scared. 
DOCTOR: Look, you go with them, quickly, but don't cause any trouble. It'll give me time to see if I can help you. I think perhaps I can do something to that machine, but I must have time, yes? 
VICKI: All right, but be quick. 
DOCTOR: All right, don't worry. Goodbye. 
(Reluctantly, Vicki allows herself to be taken back into the ship, and the Doctor turns his attention to the air converter.)

[Spaceship].

(On the Drahvin spaceship, Steven is still pretending to be asleep. Nervously, Drahvin 2 approaches Maaga.) 
DRAHVIN 2: Maaga, shall we go? 
MAAGA: Where? 
DRAHVIN 2: To patrol. 
MAAGA: I see no need. 
DRAHVIN 2: To see what the other two are doing. 
MAAGA: No. 
DRAHVIN 2: But, Maaga 
MAAGA: Can you hear me? 
DRAHVIN 2: We always go out on patrol at this time. 
MAAGA: Yes, but not now. Soldier Drahvins, you can't understand anything that's different, can you? You are made unintelligent, and you remain that way for the rest of your lives. I told them soldiers were no good for space work. All they can do is kill. But they wouldn't listen. If you are to conquer space, they said, you will need soldiers. So here I am confronted with danger, and the only one able to think. Very well. I am your commanding officer. I am your controller, am I not? 
DRAHVIN 2: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: And you obey my orders? 
DRAHVIN 2: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: Why? 
DRAHVIN 2: Because you are our leader. 
MAAGA: And? 
DRAHVIN 2: You think. 
MAAGA: And you don't know what that means. But because I think, I order that there'll be no patrol now. We have a prisoner. In order to save him, the other two must help us. 
DRAHVIN 1: I do not understand why they would want to help a friend. 
MAAGA: I know you don't. 
DRAHVIN 1: We would not. We would leave him here. 
MAAGA: Yes, we would. But I have heard of creatures like these. They help one another. 
DRAHVIN 3: Why, Maaga? 
MAAGA: I don't know. I have heard that on occasions, they even die for one another. 
DRAHVIN 3: Die? For their friends? 
MAAGA: There are many strange things in the universe. 
DRAHVIN 2: I do not understand. 
MAAGA: I know you don't. But despite that, you will obey orders. It may be that we shall kill neither the Rills nor the Earth creatures. Not with our own hands, that is. It may be better for us to escape in the Rills' spaceship and leave them here. And then, when we are out in space, we can look back. We will see a vast, white, exploding planet and know that they have died with it. 
DRAHVIN 1: But we will not see them die. 
MAAGA: You will not. But I, at least, have enough intelligence to imagine it. The fear, the horror, the shuddering of a planet in its last moments of life. And then they die. But that is for later. Attention! 
(Maaga turns to address each of her soldiers in turn.) You will rest. You will guard the prisoner. You will go out and look for the Earth creatures. Open the door. 
(As the others leave the room, Drahvin 1 crosses over to sit next to Steven, where Maaga joins her.) 
DRAHVIN 1: He sleeps. 
MAAGA: But you will not. He must not move. 
(Maaga leaves the room. Unobserved, Steven opens his eyes to assess his armed guard.)

[Central chamber]

(Vicki has been taken back to the Rill central chamber. Nervously, she glances at the window where she saw the watching eyes, but the shutter is now closed. A second machine enters the chamber. One of the Chumblies gently nudges against Vicki.) 
VICKI: Stop doing that! What do you want, anyway? 
CHUMBLEY: (fast, then slowing down) What do you want anyway? What do you want anyway? What do you want anyway? What do you want anyway? What do you want anyway? We are sorry to separate you from your friend, but it was necessary. 
(The shutter on the window has lifted.) 
VICKI: Who are you? 
CHUMBLEY: Who are you? 
VICKI: We're, er, we're time travellers from the planet Earth. 
CHUMBLEY: I see. You were sent here by the Drahvins? 
VICKI: Yes. 
CHUMBLEY: To do us harm? 
VICKI: No. No, you see the Drahvins are keeping a friend of ours prisoner. So, we had to do as they said. 
CHUMBLEY: What was that? 
VICKI: To capture your spaceship. 
CHUMBLEY: Why do they want to capture it? We have offered to take them with us. 
VICKI: They didn't tell us that. 
CHUMBLEY: No. They would not. They would rather kill. They hate us. 
VICKI: Well, you did kill one of them. 
CHUMBLEY: We kill no one. 
VICKI: But they. Look, who is talking? Is it, is it this Chumbley, or is it someone else? 
CHUMBLEY: You call the machines Chumblies? 
VICKI: Yes. 
CHUMBLEY: The Chumblies have a speaker in them. They are transmitting our thoughts. 
VICKI: Your, your thoughts. 
CHUMBLEY: We do not speak like you. We have no vocal chords. We communicate in thought. 
VICKI: Who are you? 
CHUMBLEY: We are the Rills. 
VICKI: Why can't I see you? 
CHUMBLEY: It is better that you do not. Not all the dominant species in the universe look like humans. Our appearance might shock you as it shocked the Drahvins. 
(Outside, the Doctor has removed one of the access plates from the air convertor, and he peers inside.) 
VICKI: The Drahvins said that you attacked them. 
CHUMBLEY: That is short of the truth. We were investigating outer space when we encountered a strange ship. Rills do not attack or kill without good reason, so we stopped our ship. Their ship also stopped. We hung in space facing each other. We could have turned and gone away, but we were afraid that we would be attacked. 
VICKI: Yes. Well, what happened? 
CHUMBLEY: For four dawns we hung there. Then we decided to turn. As we were doing so the Drahvins fired. Immediately we did the same, and both ships crashed. When we escaped from our ship we discovered that we could not breathe the atmosphere here, but we had a small supply of our own, and set out to help the Drahvins. 
(Through some form of mental projection, Vicki is now able to see past events unfold before her eyes.) 
CHUMBLEY: The first one we found was badly injured. We started to help the soldier. Then Maaga, their leader, appeared. She started to shoot at us, so we left. We could have fought back. Our weapons are superior to theirs. But, we do not kill. The Drahvins do. When we looked back, we saw Maaga kill the injured soldier. 
VICKI: But all the Drahvins believe that you did that. 
CHUMBLEY: We know. That is why they keep attacking us. 
VICKI: Would you really have taken those people off with you? 
CHUMBLEY: Why not? What do we gain if they die? We will help you rescue your friend. Something is worrying you. 
VICKI: Yes, I, I wish I could see the whole of you. 
CHUMBLEY: It is better that you don't. Besides, we cannot come out. In order to live we must have ammoniac gas. So we live in here in a compartment where it is filtered in. 
VICKI: You mean you can't breathe oxygen at all? 
CHUMBLEY: No. Our home planet. What is it? 
VICKI: You must let me out quickly, or you'll all be killed! 
CHUMBLEY: Killed? By whom? 
VICKI: By the Doctor. He's trying to wreck your machine for making ammoniac gas. 
(Vicki dashes off towards the main entrance, where the Doctor is still working at sabotaging the air convertor.

[Spaceship].

(Steven meanwhile is still feigning sleep, hoping that his Drahvin guard will eventually go to sleep herself. Cautiously opening his eyes a fraction, he sees that at last she's nodding off in the chair. Taking great care not to make any sound that might wake the guard, Steven sits up very slowly. Gingerly he lowers his feet to the floor, freezing as the material beneath him creaks alarmingly. The Drahvin jerks and mumbles, but does not wake up. Only once he's sure that the guard is still asleep does Steven dare to move again. At last he's sitting directly in front of the Drahvin. He raises his hands, one aimed at her gun, the other at her mouth. Lunging forward, Steven quietly knocks the chair backwards and snatches for the gun. He turns it on the Drahvin, but there's no need. Examining her, he discovers she was knocked unconscious as she fell. All is quiet. Steven straightens and moves quickly to the door controls. Very gently, he depresses the lever. At that moment Maaga appears, gun in hand.) 
MAAGA: He's trying to escape! 
(Steven enters the airlock but finds himself cornered. He raises the gun.) 
STEVEN: Stop! 
MAAGA: You can't escape. Give up and we will not harm you. 
STEVEN: I'd be a fool to believe that, wouldn't I? 
(Steven presses the control and closes the inner door, sealing him off from the Drahvins.)

[Outside the spaceship]

(Opening the outer door, Steven emerges warily from the ship. He's about to set off after the Doctor and Vicki when a familiar sound alerts him to the presence of an approaching Chumbley. The Chumbley blocks his escape route. Cornered, Steven considers his options briefly before ducking back into the airlock, and closing the outer door. Defeated, he turns to find Maaga watching him through the inner door, a cruel smile on her face.)

[Air converter]

(At the Rill ship, the Doctor is poised to destroy the air convertor.) 
VICKI: Doctor, no! Don't do it, Doctor! Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh, child. 
VICKI: Oh good. I thought I was going to be too late. 
DOCTOR: Are you sure you're all right, child? 
VICKI: Yes, and the Rills won't harm us. They want to help. 
CHUMBLEY: We were told your friend is in danger. 
DOCTOR: Is that a Rill talking? 
VICKI: Yes. Well, answer him. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, you were told correctly. 
VICKI: Doctor, they're not deaf. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm sorry. I beg your pardon. I thought you couldn't hear. 
CHUMBLEY: We are not deaf, you know. Perhaps you will both come inside. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, it does occurs to me that if we do that we might be trapped. 
VICKI: Doctor, if the Rills wanted to harm us, the Chumbley could shoot us now. 
DOCTOR: Well, yes. Indeed. Of course, child. Yes, that's quite true, quite true. Yes, well, lead the way, lead the way. As it happens, I'd like to take a look round. What's this? What's this fellow doing? 
CHUMBLEY: Going to repair the damage you have done. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes. Quite so.

[Passageway].

DOCTOR: Tell me, what do these Rills look like? 
VICKI: They won't show themselves, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Why ever not? 
CHUMBLEY: Because our appearance would not be pleasant to you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, what nonsense. We're not children, you know. 
CHUMBLEY: It is best you do not see us. 
DOCTOR: Oh, very well. Carry on, carry on. Oh, what utter rubbish, isn't it? 
(The Doctor and Vicki are escorted back to the central chamber.)

[Central chamber]

DOCTOR: Oh, yes. This this drill rigging here. Tell me, what is it you drilling for? 
CHUMBLEY: Power. We must have power for launching our spaceship. The suns are too weak to supply this power, therefore, by drilling we may find some in the ground. 
DOCTOR: Very well, if you take my advice, you'll get a move on. There's very little time left. 
CHUMBLEY: You know about the explosion of this planet? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, we know more than you. Your timing is wrong. The disintegration of this planet is not fourteen dawns away. It is now less than two dawns. 
CHUMBLEY: Two dawns? 
DOCTOR: Two dawns. 
CHUMBLEY: Then we have no chance of survival. 
VICKI: But you've repaired your ship. 
CHUMBLEY: Yes, but the only power we find is a gas, and that is of no use to us. We have no means of converting it into the sunray power we need. 
DOCTOR: I think I might be able to supply you with the power you need. Yes, I think I'll help you, since you're so willing to help us. 
CHUMBLEY: We would be deeply grateful. 
VICKI: You keep saying we. How many of you are there? 
CHUMBLEY: Four. 
VICKI: That doesn't seem many for manning a spaceship. 
CHUMBLEY: We were twelve. Eight of us died in the crash. 
DOCTOR: First I will need some metal-cored cable. 
CHUMBLEY: We have some. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. I think I can put into effect the transference of power from my ship to this. Now, first of all, I must have a conversion. Now is that possible? 
CHUMBLEY: We shall do all that you say, you are our only 
VICKI: What's that? 
DOCTOR: What's the matter, hmm? 
CHUMBLEY: We have just received a message from a machine. 
VICKI: A Chumbley? 
CHUMBLEY: It is by the Drahvin spaceship. It reports that a being, not Drahvin, came out of it. 
VICKI: Steven. 
CHUMBLEY: It detected that he was a friend of yours, but before contact could be made, he went back in again. 
VICKI: He still thinks the Chumblies are dangerous, you see. Doctor, let me go and tell him. 
DOCTOR: That won't be necessary, my dear. He's quite capable enough of looking after himself. Now, the cable, please, the cable.

[Spaceship]

MAAGA: Do you hear me, Earthman? 
STEVEN [OC]: Yes, I hear you. 
MAAGA: Throw down your gun, and we will set you free. 
(Defiantly, Steven grips his gun tighter.) 
MAAGA: Very well, but if you try to come through here, you may kill one of us, but we will surely kill you. Yes, outside a Rills' machine waits to kill also. 
STEVEN [OC]: All right. I'll stay here. I may be trapped but you can't harm me. 
MAAGA: You are in the airlock. On the wall there are some dials. They are pressure gauges. 
STEVEN: So? 
MAAGA: We can empty the oxygen out of that section and you will suffocate. 
(Steven looks for the button that opens the outer door.) 
MAAGA: If you touch that, the door will open completely, leaving you at the mercy of the machine. 
DRAHVIN 2: Ready? 
MAAGA: Pressure? 
DRAHVIN 2: Normal. 
MAAGA: Temperature? 
DRAHVIN 2: Normal. 
MAAGA: Good. Empty the airlock. Yes, Earthman. The air is already leaving the airlock. You have three choices. 
STEVEN [OC]: Three? 
MAAGA: Stay there and die, go outside and be killed by the machine, or surrender.

[Central chamber]

DOCTOR: Yes, good. Good. Yes, I think that's enough. That should be all right. Now then, let me have your arm. That's splendid. Now, follow me to the ship. 
CHUMBLEY: Our thanks. 
VICKI: What does that mean? 
CHUMBLEY: The Chumbley has reported that your friend is still in the ship, but he is making noises that it cannot understand. It says they sound like cries of distress. 
VICKI: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: I must go at once. 
CHUMBLEY: You cannot help him alone. We will send two more Chumbley machines with you. 
DOCTOR: But what can they do? 
CHUMBLEY: Cut open the ship, if necessary. 
VICKI: Doctor, come on! 
CHUMBLEY: Go quickly! The Chumbley reports that the sounds are weakening. 
DOCTOR: You stay here, child. 
VICKI: No, I'm coming with you! 
DOCTOR: All right. Come, then, come. Come along. And you, stay here until you receive a message. Come on! Quickly! Quickly! Quick! 
(The Doctor and Vicki follow the Chumblies into the passageway and out of the Rill base, making their way as fast as they can back to the Drahvin spaceship.)

[Outside the spaceship]

(Nearing the ship, they encounter a Drahvin soldier on patrol.) 
DRAHVIN 1: Halt or I fire! Do not move. 
DOCTOR: What is wrong? 
DRAHVIN 1: Where are you going? 
DOCTOR: Back to your spaceship, of course. 
DRAHVIN 1: The machines are our enemies. Why do you bring them too? 
DOCTOR: We're going to help you and Maaga and the rest of them to get to the Rill spaceship. We wish to save lives, not to destroy them. 
DRAHVIN 1: Maaga does not trust you. I do not trust you. 
VICKI: Listen, we have captured these machines. They do anything we tell them now. Watch. Come forward. Stop. Go back. Stop. 
(Unconvinced, the Drahvin turns and fires at the Chumbley. Horrified, Vicki wrestles the gun away her.) 
DOCTOR: Now, madam! Listen to me! 
DRAHVIN 1: Kill me now. I have failed my duty. 
DOCTOR: Nonsense. Let us stop this thought of killing anyone. Now, madam, back to your spaceship. Back please. 
VICKI: Go on. Hurry.

[Airlock]

(Inside the airlock, Steven is much the worse for wear.) 
MAAGA [OC]: Why do you not give up, Earthman? 
(Staggering to the wall, Steven attempts to activate the outer door control.) 
STEVEN: I'd rather face the Chumblies than you any day. 
MAAGA [OC]: That will not work now. The pressure has locked the door. You must surrender, or die. 
(Gasping for breath, Steven slumps unconscious to the floor.)

Episode Four - The Exploding Planet

[Spaceship].

(The Doctor, Vicki, and the party of Chumblies are approaching the ship. One of the Chumblies carries a spherical bomb-like object.) 
DRAHVIN 2: He cannot live much longer, Maaga. Soon he will die. 
MAAGA: We do not wish him dead. 
DRAHVIN 2: But he is our enemy. 
MAAGA: Also our hostage. 
DRAHVIN 3: Machine with bomb approaching! 
MAAGA: Quick, take cover! 
(The Chumbley projectile crashes through the porthole and begins to discharge a thick cloud of ammonia gas.) 
CHUMBLEY [OC]: Stand clear! 
(A second Chumbley fires at the airlock door, releasing Steven.)

[Outside the spaceship]

CHUMBLEY: All right, it's safe now. 
VICKI: Steven? 
DOCTOR: Come along, my boy. Up on your feet. Quickly! Come along. Come on, come on. Put your head down. Now breathe deeply. Come along. 
VICKI: They nearly killed him in there. Come on, let's get away from there in case they come out. 
DOCTOR: Steady. Take it easy. You're with friends. 
VICKI: Are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, thanks to the Chumblies. They did the trick. I don't know what those Drahvins were going to think. Come on, keep breathing. Keep breathing. In and out. In and out. Come on.

[Spaceship].

MAAGA: Guns ready. Door. After them, and kill!

[Outside the spaceship]

DOCTOR: Be all right in a minute. 
(The Drahvins run out.) 
CHUMBLEY: Stop! If you move at all, we shall fire. Do not mistake our intention. You will not interfere. Doctor, please lead your party away. 
DOCTOR: I certainly will. Can you walk? Come on, my boy, on your feet. Come along. That way. That way. Come on. Keep breathing hard. In and out. 
(The Doctor. Vicki and Steven leave with a Chumbley escort.) 
CHUMBLEY: Maaga, you will take your soldiers back into the ship, and you will stay there. Until now we have spared you, although you have attacked us time and time again. But we will always defend our friends. 
MAAGA: Friends. 
CHUMBLEY: We will prevent any attempt on your part to leave the ship. I am resolute. Now, go back into your spaceship. 
MAAGA: You have polluted the air with your bomb. 
CHUMBLEY: It will have cleared by now. The ammonia bomb was only a warning. Go inside. 
MAAGA: Come.

[Spaceship].

(The Drahvins return to their ship, closing the airlock. Maaga crosses to the porthole and looks out.) 
MAAGA: It's still there. 
DRAHVIN 2: We cannot escape. 
MAAGA: Quiet! 
DRAHVIN 1: But Maaga, we 
MAAGA: We cannot escape yet, but we will. No Drahvin is defeated until dead. Is that so? 
DRAHVINS: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: We are still alive. It depends how long that machine will be. You failed in your mission of patrol. 
DRAHVIN 1: I was outnumbered. 
MAAGA: You will be dealt with. Failure is never tolerated. You. Does the forward hatch still work? 
DRAHVIN 3: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: Silently? 
DRAHVIN 3: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: It is now dim light. Soon it will be night. The last night this planet will ever know. We must capture the Rill spaceship before then. When I give the order, you will steal silently through the forward hatch. You will then creep round behind the Rills' machine. Understood? 
DRAHVIN 3: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: And you will destroy it.

[Central chamber]

(The Doctor, Vicki and Steven have reached the Rill central chamber.) 
STEVEN: Ugh! 
VICKI: It's that ammoniac gas we were telling you about. 
STEVEN: I'd rather they breathed it than me. 
VICKI: Doctor? There can't be a lot of time left now, is there? 
DOCTOR: About six hours, child. Have you finished that conversion? 
CHUMBLEY: Yes, we have, but it will take some time to transfer the power of your ship to ours. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, nonsense. 
CHUMBLEY: We are concerned for your safety. 
VICKI: And we're concerned for yours. 
DOCTOR: Oh, indeed, that's very noble of you all. It's a matter of urgency. Come along, let's have the cable in please at once. 
CHUMBLEY: Very well. 
DOCTOR: Quickly, quickly. Quickly, child. Here. Yes, that'll do. Splendid. 
STEVEN: What is going on, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
STEVEN: What are you trying to do? 
DOCTOR: I'm going to try to transfer power from my ship into the interior of the Rill ship here. 
STEVEN: Oh, I see. 
DOCTOR: Now if you suspect there's any trouble whilst I'm working, I want you to contact me at once, understood? 
STEVEN: But you want me to stay here? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I want you to stay here with the leader of the Rills and try and have some rest. Get some. So, contain yourself. Now then. Right, off you go. 
VICKI: Can I come with you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, child, if you wish. Come along. Hurry, hurry, hurry. 
VICKI: See you later, Steven. 
DOCTOR: Come along. 
(Vicki and the Doctor leave) 
CHUMBLEY: You have not gone with your friends. 
STEVEN: No. 
)Unable to contain his curiosity, Steven wanders around the chamber, examining the unfamiliar equipment.) 
CHUMBLEY: You are interested in our place? 
STEVEN: Yes, quite. So the Doctor trusts you? 
CHUMBLEY: Why shouldn't he? 
STEVEN: No reason. I suppose you gave right ethical reasons for him, so naturally he does trust you. 
CHUMBLEY: We rescued you from the Drahvins, but you still don't trust us? 
STEVEN: Oh, you could be the same as them, using us for your own salvation. 
CHUMBLEY: The Doctor offered to help us. We needed his help. 
STEVEN: So did the Drahvins. 
CHUMBLEY: What are you getting at? 
STEVEN: Nothing. 
CHUMBLEY: Yes, you are. 
STEVEN: All right. You said it would take hours to charge this ship properly. 
CHUMBLEY: The Doctor said he could do it in time. 
STEVEN: Yes. But supposing, just this once, you're right, and he's wrong. Would you take us with you, or would you allow us to leave in our own ship? 
CHUMBLEY: In your own ship, if possible. 
STEVEN: Come off it. I mean, if you don't get this charged in time, you aren't going to let us go just like that. 
CHUMBLEY: We are strange beings to you. You've never met anything like us. You come from Earth, a planet we don't know, but clearly it is a planet which still knows conflict. 
STEVEN: What? So? 
CHUMBLEY: If we are right and the power-charge is going to take too long a time, then the Doctor, the girl, and you must leave. We believe in self-preservation. 
STEVEN: Oh yeah, I'm sure. 
CHUMBLEY: But if there is a choice, the Doctor must go. He travels further than we can. And everything he has shown he stands for is what we believe in. So it is better that he goes. 
STEVEN: I'm sorry. You can't blame me, though, for being suspicious. In that case, there's something you ought know. Whilst I was in the Drahvin ship, they said they intended to leave this planet in yours. 
CHUMBLEY: We are prepared to take them with us. 
STEVEN: Well, that's not what they mean. They take your ship, you stay here. 
CHUMBLEY: We must hope they do not succeed. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, there's so little time left, they're going to be desperate. I'll tell you what. Why not let me fix the cable for you at this end? 
CHUMBLEY: Thank you! The machine will help you. It will be quicker. 
STEVEN: It's got to be.

[Spaceship]

(In the Drahvin ship, Drahvin 3 is preparing to attack the Chumbley outside.) 
DRAHVIN 3: I'm ready, Maaga. 
MAAGA: Then go. And do not fail. 
DRAHVIN 3: I shall not. 
(Holding an iron bar, Three leaves the ship through a hatch and drops silently to the ground.)

[Outside the Tardis]

VICKI: It's getting darker, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Oh, it's nothing to worry about, my dear. I think the evenings last here for about four hours. 
VICKI: It's strange. To think that at dawn all this will explode into nothing. 
DOCTOR: No, not just nothing, child. Hydrogen gas that springs itself out like molten silver against the other stars in the same galaxy. Yes, well, let's have the cable, please.

[Spaceship]

MAAGA: She's out of sight. 
DRAHVIN 1: She will die willingly. 
MAAGA: She will not die until she has destroyed the machine. 
DRAHVIN 2: Will we escape, Maaga? 
MAAGA: Yes, when we have destroyed the machine we will escape. 
DRAHVIN 2: Oh! What is happening? 
MAAGA: It's first warning of the explosion. We have only five hours left. She must act quickly. 
(Undetected, Drahvin 3 creeps up behind the Chumbley. Raising the iron bar, she brings it crashing down with murderous force on the Chumbley's dome.) 
(Completing the work of connecting the cables to the Tardis power unit, the Doctor and Vicki return to the Rill base.)

[Central chamber]

STEVEN: Well, it's all fixed up here, Doctor. Any snags at the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Everything under control, my dear boy. 
STEVEN: Oh good, good. 
DOCTOR: Switch on your motors, please. 
CHUMBLEY: Start control. Full intake. Cable guard stand by. 
VICKI: Is that the power being transferred? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it is, my dear. 
VICKI: How long will it take? 
DOCTOR: Oh, three to four hours, I think. 
STEVEN: Oh, but this planet's due to explode in less than five hours. 
DOCTOR: I fully appreciate that fact, young man. 
VICKI: There's that alarm again. 
STEVEN: Oh, what's happened now? 
CHUMBLEY: Silence, please. Emergency message coming through. The Drahvins have escaped and destroyed the Chumbley outside their spaceship. 
VICKI: Oh, no! 
DOCTOR: And the Chumbley outside my Tardis? 
CHUMBLEY: In the position he has taken up he is in no danger. Continue, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, thank you. 
CHUMBLEY: There will be no more incidents. 
STEVEN: They won't go after the Tardis anyway, Doctor. It's this ship they want, and us.

[Outside the spaceship]

MAAGA: You have done well. 
DRAHVIN 3: Thank you, Maaga. 
MAAGA: I will see that you are mentioned. Did you see any other machines? 
DRAHVIN 3: The only one there I destroyed. 
MAAGA: Good. 
DRAHVIN 3: It will not move again. 
MAAGA: We are going to attack the Rill spaceship. You will follow close behind me. Understood? 
DRAHVINS: Yes, Maaga. 
MAAGA: When we get nearer, I will give you further orders. Come.

[Central chamber]

DOCTOR: Oh, do stop worrying, dear boy, and stand still. 
CHUMBLEY: Stand still. 
STEVEN: Look, Doctor, I know exactly what they intend to do. And as soon as they see this cable, they're going destroy it. 
CHUMBLEY: Do not worry. I am prepared for that. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. Is the power still coming through? 
CHUMBLEY: It is. 
STEVEN: And how long's it going to take? 
CHUMBLEY: Another two hours, at least. 
STEVEN: Oh. 
DOCTOR: That should be enough. 
VICKI: Just. 
STEVEN: Look, isn't it possible to charge any faster? 
DOCTOR: Utterly impossible, dear boy. There's great danger of the panel blowing. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, we're going to be lucky to get back to the Tardis in time. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
STEVEN: Well the Drahvins are still out to get us. 
CHUMBLEY: Do not worry. We will ensure that you return safely to your ship. 
VICKI: Look, it's a Drahvin. 
STEVEN: They don't waste time, do they? 
DRAHVIN 3: Stand still. You have escaped once. You will not do so again. 
VICKI: Steven. (inaudible) 
STEVEN: And be killed? 
DRAHVIN 3: Death does not frighten me. I die a warrior Drahvin. 
(As Drahvin 3's finger tightens on the trigger, a Chumbley appears in the doorway and fires on her. She falls to the ground.) 
VICKI: Oh, Steven. 
STEVEN: What have you done? 
CHUMBLEY: Do not worry, she is completely paralysed. I told you there would be no further incidents. 
VICKI: Doctor? Where's the Doctor? 
STEVEN: Oh, there he is 
DOCTOR [OC]: Hello, I'm in here. Come in. Come in. 
CHUMBLEY: You may enter. But be prepared for a shock. 
VICKI: Do you think we ought to go in? 
DOCTOR [OC]: Come along, come along, come along.

[Planet surface]

(Maaga and her soldiers are resting on a ridge above the Rill base.) 
MAAGA: We've driven them off. 
DRAHVIN 1: But we have not destroyed one. 
MAAGA: Don't worry, we will. 
DRAHVIN 2: More machines! 
MAAGA: Again!

[Rill chamber]

(Entering the inner chamber, the Doctor, Vicki and Steven can see the Rills behind the glass partition, enveloped in dense smoky gas.) 
CHUMBLEY: Now you know what we look like. 
DOCTOR: I do. And I, for one, am glad of it. 
CHUMBLEY: We apologise for the glass partition, but you will understand we must keep our atmosphere in here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course, of course. 
CHUMBLEY: Our appearance shocks you? 
DOCTOR: Not now. I must admit, it did at first. 
STEVEN: Well, I don't see why the Drahvins should hate you. 
VICKI: I know. I mean, after all, we must look just as strange to you. 
CHUMBLEY: To the Drahvins we are ugly, so they become frightened. 
DOCTOR: You are different from us, of course, but at least you are intelligent. 
STEVEN: Yes, what difference does it make what your form is? 
DOCTOR: Importance lies in the character and to what use you put this intelligence. We respect you as we respect all life. 
STEVEN: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: What's the matter, my child? 
VICKI: I suddenly feel terribly ill. 
STEVEN: It's the ammoniac gas escaping. 
DOCTOR: Oh dear, dear, dear, yes, I 
CHUMBLEY: You had better return to the other chamber. Our atmosphere is not good for you. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, thank you. Young man. Young man. 
VICKI: I suppose we won't meet again. 
CHUMBLEY: It is improbable. 
VICKI: Goodbye. 
CHUMBLEY: Goodbye.

[Central chamber]

STEVEN: How much longer, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: One hour. 
STEVEN: And how long till the explosion? 
DOCTOR: One hour and a half. 
STEVEN: Hmm. Well, let's hope no more Drahvins get in here.

[Planet surface]

(The Drahvins take cover from the attacking Chumblies. Maaga throws aside her gun in disgust.) 
MAAGA: Oh, it's no good. Our guns can't harm them. 
DRAHVIN 1: Then we must use bars, as Three did! 
MAAGA: No, we will go that way. Head for the spaceship part of the building. We must concentrate on that.

[Central chamber]

STEVEN: It can't take much longer! 
DOCTOR: Oh, patience, dear boy, patience. 
VICKI: Dawn will be here in half an hour now. 
STEVEN: Yes, and when dawn comes this planet explodes like a bomb. 
DOCTOR: Oh, really, you two. 
VICKI: What's that? What is it? 
DOCTOR: Ah! That is a signal that the spaceship is now fully charged, unless I'm very much mistaken. 
STEVEN: Well, it's about time, too. 
CHUMBLEY: You are right, Doctor. We are ready to disconnect. 
DOCTOR: Oh, good, good. Now, you have sufficient power? 
CHUMBLEY: Enough to get us well out into space, where we can recharge from a sun. 
DOCTOR: Splendid, splendid. Then I don't think there's any more for us to do. We will go. 
CHUMBLEY: A Chumbley will escort you back to your ship. 
DOCTOR: And yourself? 
CHUMBLEY: We will wait until you are safely there. 
DOCTOR: Oh, we shall be quite all right. It is you that needs to be out of range, not us. The moment I start my motors, we shall be out of range in time. We don't need space. 
VICKI: Go now, please. 
CHUMBLEY: Very well. In a moment we shall leave here and enter the ship. From that time we will not be able to talk with you. The Chumbley with you will escort you back to your ship. He will protect you and obey your commands. Once you have gone he will destroy himself. 
VICKI: No! 
CHUMBLEY: It will be painless. Merely putting itself out of action. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I understand, and thank you very much. 
CHUMBLEY: It is easy to help others when they are so willing to help you. Though we are beings of separate planets, you from the solar system and we from another space, our ways of thought, at times, do not seem all that different. It has been an honour to know you and serve you. 
VICKI: Good luck. 
CHUMBLEY: Thank you. We shall give you time to get clear before we take off. Now we are going. Goodbye. We wish you well. 
DOCTOR: They've started the motors. 
STEVEN: Yes, and we've got less than half an hour, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're quite right. Quickly, quickly, come, come.

[Planet surface]

(As a sudden stillness falls, Drahvin 1 emerges to see what has happened.) 
DRAHVIN 1: Where are the machines? 
DRAHVIN 2: There are none. 
MAAGA: Listen! They're escaping! 
(The Drahvins watch in horror as the Rill ship takes off.) 
STEVEN: There they go! 
DOCTOR: Isn't it amazing? What a wonderful sight! Oh! 
VICKI: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, of course. 
MAAGA: The Earth people. We can catch them!

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor, Steven and Vicki hurry back towards the Tardis, their Chumbley escort following closely. As the pursuing Drahvins draw nearer, the Chumbley turns and fires at them. The Drahvins fling themselves to the ground.) 
STEVEN: Come on, Doc! 
(Finally reaching the Tardis, the Doctor fumbles to unlock the door then shepherds Steven and Vicki inside. After a moment, Steven reemerges with the end of the cable and tosses it out of the ship.) 
STEVEN: Here they come! 
(As the Drahvins rush towards the ship, the ground starts to tremble, and a low rumble like distant thunder starts to fill the air. Horrified, Maaga watches the Tardis dematerialise, fear etched on her face. And as the sun rises for the last time, the planet begins to break up around her.)

[Tardis]

STEVEN: Can we see the disintegration on the scanner, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: No, I'm afraid not, dear boy. We've dematerialised from that galaxy. 
VICKI: Oh! 
DOCTOR: A long time ago. 
VICKI: Oh! 
DOCTOR: What's the matter, child? 
VICKI: I've hurt my ankle. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I'm afraid we shall, yes, we'll just have to put a cold compress on that. Oh dear, dear, dear. You know, I wish we could stop somewhere for a while and take stock of ourselves, instead of being surrounded by dangers all the time. Just put that third switch forward, would you? Thank you. 
VICKI: Look at that planet. I wonder what's going on there? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, I wonder.

[Jungle]

(Light years away, on the planet Kembel Jeff Garvey is lying on the jungle floor, barely conscious. Garvey wakes up with a start, sitting up and peering about himself in confusion.) 
GARVEY: I remember now. I must, I must kill. I must kill. I must kill.

[Jungle]

(The planet Kembel, its landmasses covered in vast inhospitable jungles holding many dangers. In a forest clearing, Jeff Garvey is lying on the ground, barely conscious. Garvey wakes with a start, sitting up and peering about him in confusion. Quite suddenly, Garvey presses his hands to his temples, his face twisted in agony. At last the pain passes. Garvey becomes calmer, dropping his hands as he begins to smile. Rising to his feet, Garvey pulls a gun from his belt.) 
GARVEY: I, I remember now. I must, I must kill. Must kill. Must kill.

[Outside the ship]

(A short distance away, Marc Cory and Gordon Lowery are attempting to repair their rocket ship. Grimly, Lowery peers out into the surrounding jungle.)
LOWERY: Why you ever wanted to land on a planet like this in the first place I'll never know. This is getting on my nerves. 
(A loud screech) 
CORY: I hate to think what kind of an animal makes a noise like that. 
LOWERY: Yeah, they're getting closer. 
CORY: Yes, all the more reason to stop talking and get on with the job. 
LOWERY: Just you listen to me, Cory. I know my orders were to let you have full reign, and you've certainly taken advantage of that, but as Captain of this expedition, my first responsibility is to get this ship off the ground. So just cut the chat. Some other time, hmm? Bring that wrench. 
CORY: How's it going? 
LOWERY: Oh, it's slow. Flare-back melted the retaining bolts. Just solid lumps of tarnium. Ah, some of it's free. 
CORY: I want to have a look around. 
LOWERY: If we don't shoot off soon, we won't make it to the rendezvous with the freighter, you know? If we're not in the pick-up orbit, they won't wait. 
CORY: You'll make it, Lowery. Here you are. 
LOWERY: I'm doing the best I can. I didn't want to touch down on this lousy planet in the first place, remember? 
CORY: Let's not start that again. Just get on with the job, would you? Where the devil's Garvey? He should be back by now. 
LOWERY: He'll be here. That screwdriver, will you? 
(Cory hands Lowery the requested tool. Hidden in the dense foliage of the jungle, Garvey watches the two men continue working on the rocket's tail fin.) 
GARVEY: Kill. Kill. 
(He edges forward) 
LOWERY: Ah, managed to get some of it free. Look at it, it's useless. Get me a spare, will you? No, in the ship. 
(As Cory heads back into the rocket, Lowery continues to work. Garvey edges closer, keeping the ship between him and the two other men so that he cannot be seen.) 
LOWERY: Oh, it's no good, Cory. You needn't bother with a spare. I'm just not going to be able to fix it. 
(Bent over his work, Lowery is defenceless as Garvey raises his gun to fire. But it is Garvey who topples to the ground, caught in the blast of Marc Cory's ray gun.) 
LOWERY: Jeff! Jeff! 
(Lowery kneels beside Garvey, cradling his head. The fallen man writhes with pain and then lies still.) 
LOWERY: You've killed him. You've killed Jeff! 
CORY: It was him or you. 
LOWERY: You didn't give him a chance. You shot him down like an animal. You just shot him down! 
(Lowery launches himself at Cory, trying to strangle him. Cory punches him in the stomach. Lowery reels back, shocked and gasping, as Cory kneels down besides Garvey's body. He makes a cursory examination of the head and neck, and then with a grunt of recognition, removes a long thorn embedded in the flesh just below the ear.) 
CORY: A Varga thorn. 
LOWERY: What? Varga? 
CORY: Careful, don't prick yourself with it or you'll end up the way Garvey is. I'd have to kill you. 
LOWERY: What do you mean? 
CORY: Let's get back into the ship. 
LOWERY: What about his personal effects? 
CORY: All right, but hurry up. 
(Lowery collects Garvey's belongings then he and Cory disappear into the rocket ship, the door sliding shut behind them. Garvey lies on the ground where he fell, apparently dead. After a moment or two, however, the fingers of one hand begin to twitch and clench, the movement becoming more pronounced and violent. As the hand twists and turns, long white hair can be seen to be covering its back, and amongst the hair a multitude of spiny Varga thorns are growing.)

[Inside the ship]

CORY: I didn't intend to tell you anything, but since we're stuck on this planet and Garvey's dead, there are some facts that you're entitled to know. 
LOWERY: Yeah. Jeff Garvey's dead. I mean, we flew together the last ten years, and now he's dead, and you killed him. You'd better explain that fact, and make it good. 
CORY: Sit down and take a look at this. 
(Cory hand Lowery his ID.) 
LOWERY: I might have known. Space Security Service. Licensed to kill. 
CORY: That's right. 
LOWERY: Well, count me out. 
CORY: This other document gives me the authority to enlist the aid of any persons, civil or military. You were just enlisted. From now on, Lowery, you can take your orders from me. 
LOWERY: All right, all right. But I don't fully understand. Better fill in a few details. 
CORY: All right. I suppose you've heard of the Daleks? 
LOWERY: The Daleks invaded Earth a thousand years ago. 
CORY: That's right. Well, they haven't been active in our galaxy for some time now, but that doesn't mean they've exactly been sitting around. In the last five hundred years, they've gained control of over seventy planets in Ninth Galactic System and forty more in the Constellation of Miros. 
LOWERY: Don't see why that should concern us. I mean, they're both millions of light years away from our galaxy. 
CORY: Hmm, that's what we all thought. But about a week ago we had a report from the captain of a space freighter. His navigator spotted a space ship of a type never before used in our system. He saw it only for a second but he gave us a good description. 
LOWERY: So? 
CORY: What he described was a Dalek spaceship. 
(Outside the ship, Garvey's feet and legs are twitching with life, and from the waist up his body is covered in long white spines. All resemblance to the human that was once Garvey is disappearing. He's becoming a Varga. Inside, Cory tries to make contact with the rendezvous ship.) 
CORY: Freighter XM2, freighter XM2. Come in, please. Come in, please! 
LOWERY: Can you make it work? 
CORY: It's got to work! 
LOWERY: It may have been damaged in the crash. 
CORY: We must keep on trying. 
LOWERY: You tested the link pulses? 
CORY: I know what I'm doing. 
LOWERY: All right, all right, so the link pulses work. There could be something else wrong with it. What about the vergometer? Have you tested that? Without that you'd never break through the atmosphere. 
CORY: How can I possibly test that? We've just got to take our chance that it hasn't been damaged. Freighter XM2. Freighter XM2. Come in, please. Come in, please. (static) It's useless. Are you sure we can't repair this ship? 
LOWERY: Oh, not a chance. So you think that the Daleks have established some sort of a base here, is that it? 
CORY: It could be. This is the most hostile planet in the universe. People from other civilisations avoid it. I suddenly had a hunch that this might make an ideal place for any secret preparations that the Daleks wanted to make. That's why we brought this ship down here. 
LOWERY: Did you tell anybody else about this hunch of yours? 
CORY: No one. Not even your commander. I just asked for a couple of men and a small rocket. I didn't even tell him what for. 
LOWERY: Then why are you telling me? 
CORY: Because of this. A thorn from a Varga plant. A thing part animal, part vegetable. Looks like a cactus. The poison attacks the brain. Rational thought is replaced by an overwhelming desire to kill. Eventually the poison seeps through the system and the victim is gradually transformed into a Varga. 
LOWERY: And what's that got to do with the Daleks? 
CORY: The only place in the universe where Vargas grow naturally is on the Daleks' own planet, Skaro. If the Vargas are here, the Daleks are, too.

[Dalek control room]

(Cory's hunch is correct. There is indeed a Dalek base on Kembel. The machine creatures gather in the main control room as the Dalek Supreme enters and prepares to be updated on the latest developments. The Supreme's casing is jet black in contrast to the gunmetal blue-grey and silver of the others.) 
BLACK: I will receive your reports. First, space monitor control. 
DALEK 1: Space monitor control. The emissaries from the seven planets will arrive as arranged. 
BLACK: Then the conference will begin at first sun. Security report. 
DALEK 2: Security control. Position of alien space craft located. Our patrol will reach it shortly. 
BLACK: The ship and its occupants must be totally destroyed. Destroyed! Destroyed! 
DALEK 2: It will be done.

[Outside the ship]

(Lowery and Cory are both outside the rocket ship, observed from the fringes of the clearing by three Vargas, which sway slightly from side to side as they wait. Lowery is preparing a rescue beacon, a small metal framework with capsule launcher, while Cory makes a circuit of the ship. Lowery looks up as he returns.) 
LOWERY: Anything out there? 
CORY: Vargas. They're closing in. 
LOWERY: Do you mean to say they can move? 
CORY: Very slowly. Look. They're using their roots to drag themselves along. How long are you going to be with this rescue beacon? 
LOWERY: This is the recording part. Let's hope it wasn't damaged in the crash. 
CORY: We'll soon find out. Can you fix this capsule up? 
LOWERY: Well that's easy enough, but this is the recording mechanism for the message. If we sent the rocket into space without this, not only would we not be rescued, but as you pointed out earlier, no one would even know we were here. 
CORY: Hurry up and attach it then. 
LOWERY: All right, all right, I'm as keen to get out of here as you are. Give me those pliers, will you? Nearly finished. 
CORY: Good. I don't know how long we've got. But the Daleks must know we're here. They'll be coming for us soon. 
LOWERY: Well I still think you're jumping to conclusions, you know. I mean, just because these, what are they, Varga things grow here, it's no proof that the Daleks are here too. 
CORY: Take my word for it, they're here all right. 
LOWERY: Yes, but couldn't these Varga things grow here naturally? I mean, it's possible, isn't it? 
CORY: No. They were developed in Dalek laboratories. They grow them to give themselves protection. 
LOWERY: Well if they're synthetic, that means we 
CORY: Look, stop asking questions and get on with the work!

[Jungle]

(Elsewhere in the jungle, the Dalek security patrol considers tactics.) 
DALEK 1: Acceptor readings indicated alien space craft. We will close on it from two directions. 
DALEKS: We obey. 
(The Daleks fan off in two groups) 
[Outside the ship]

(Cory and Lowery, unaware of the greater danger, are more concerned with the threat of the Vargas, which are edging ever closer to the rocket ship.) 
LOWERY: Those things are getting too close for comfort. I'll fix them. 
CORY: It's no good, Lowery. They'll only grow again as fast as you can shoot them. 
LOWERY: At least I'll have had a try at them. 
CORY: Get back to the beacon. You sure it'll work? 
LOWERY: Well, it should work. It's standard safety equipment on all rocket ships. 
CORY: What does it do exactly? 
LOWERY: Well, you record the message, SOS, on this, just like an ordinary tape recorder. The rocket launcher shoots it high into orbit. Once it's in orbit it transmits the message. Simple. 
CORY: From what we know about the Daleks, we've got to be picked up. 
LOWERY: Well, it's tuned in to a special frequency, and there are listening posts all over the galaxy. Our people should get the message. 
CORY: And all we have to do is to stay alive until they get here. 
(Lowery continues to prepare the launcher. Then both men are startled by a sound overhead. As they stare upwards, a huge craft passes above them.) 
LOWERY: That's the biggest rocket ship I've ever seen. It's like nothing we've got. 
CORY: It's from an outer galaxy. 
LOWERY: Yes, but what's it doing in a God-forsaken planet like this? 
CORY: I don't know, but I'll tell you this. There's something very big going on here, and if the Daleks are involved you can bet your life our whole galaxy is in danger.

[Jungle]

(The Dalek patrol has also observed the spaceship's arrival.) 
DALEK 1: The ship from the planet Gearon. 
DALEK 2: And the beginning of the Great Alliance. 
(The Dalek's resume their advance, closing in on the rocket ship.)

[Outside the ship]

(Meanwhile, Lowery has finally finished assembling the launcher for the beacon.) 
LOWERY: That should just about do it. Give me the capsule will you, I'll record the message. 
CORY: Shush. 
LOWERY: What is it? 
CORY: There's something out there moving. 
LOWERY: Vargas? 
CORY: No. Moving too quickly. Come on, we've got to get away. 
LOWERY: What about the distress signal? 
CORY: We'll take it with us, launch it as soon as we get a chance. 
LOWERY: All right. Which way? 
CORY: Over here. They won't be the only ones, so watch out. 
(A sudden noise makes Lowery turn.) 
LOWERY: Cory! Daleks! 
CORY: Get down and don't make a sound! 
(Crouched in the bushes, Cory and Lowery watch as two Daleks glide past them and into the clearing. They're soon joined by two more. The Daleks line up in front of the rocket ship whilst one glides up to the doorway and checks inside before turning to face the others. DALEK 2: The ship is empty. The crew has gone. 
DALEK 1: We will search for them. Destroy the ship. Fire! 
(Lowery watches in horror as his ship is destroyed.) 
LOWERY: It's just falling apart! 
CORY: Come on! 
(Cory heads off deeper into the jungle. Lowery follows nervously, carrying the capsule launcher. All too aware that he's falling behind, Lowery pushes through a clump of dense bushes then recoils in alarm as if he has been stung. Horrified, he discovers he has a Varga thorn deeply embedded in the palm of his hand. Panicking, Lowery tears out the thorn and throws it aside, frantically sucking at the wound, trying to extract the poison.) 
CORY: Come on, man, come on. They'll be looking for us now! 
(Hesitating only a moment, Lowery follows Cory into the jungle. Back in the clearing, the Daleks have totally destroyed the rocket ship.) 
DALEK 1: Report destruction of alien ship to control. 
DALEK 2: I obey. 
DALEK 1: Advise that we will now seek out the crew. Alert all patrols. 
DALEKS: We obey.

[Conference room]

(In the Dalek city, emissaries from the seven systems have gathered in the huge conference room. Representative Malpha is the last to take his seat.) 
BLACK: With the arrival of our ally Malpha, we are enough. The meeting can now begin. 
MALPHA: No it can't. 
BLACK: What is wrong? 
MALPHA: There is a hostile presence among us. 
BLACK: What do you mean? 
MALPHA: On arrival here, I am told that there are hostile influences from the solar system among us. 
BLACK: Not among us. 
MALPHA: Then here on the planet Kembel. 
BLACK: Some beings have landed from the planet Earth, hostile beings from the centre of the solar system. But do not worry. Their spaceship has been destroyed. 
MALPHA: What about the beings? 
BLACK: They cannot escape. At this moment they are being hunted down. They will be destroyed. 
MALPHA: Are you sure? 
BLACK: They cannot get away. 
MALPHA: Suppose they send a message through this universe? 
BLACK: They will not have time. If they do not die by our Varga plants, my patrols will kill them! They will be exterminated! Exterminated!

[Jungle]

(Cory leads Lowery through the jungle, desperately seeking refuge.) 
CORY: This way.

[Conference room]

(The delegates signal their assent to the treaty laid before them.) 
ALIEN 1: Agreed. 
ALIEN 2: Agreed. 
BLACK: All are agreed. It is done. The seven great powers of the outer galaxies are one. 
ALIENS: Our galactic domination. Victory. 
(Malpha, assuming the role of speaker, addresses the others.) 
MALPHA: This is indeed an historic moment in the history of the universe. We six from the outer galaxies, joining with the power from the solar system, the Daleks! The seven of us represent the greatest war force ever assembled. Conquest is assured! Mars! Venus! Jupiter! The moon colonies! 
BLACK: They will all fall before our might. But the first of them will be Earth!

[Jungle]

(Resting as Cory scouts ahead, Lowery is now in great pain, and still desperately trying to suck the poison from his palm. Then he notices the back of his hand. Horrified, Lowery pulls up his sleeve to discover that his hand and forearm are covered with the white spines of the Varga. Hearing Cory returning, Lowery hastily covers his arm.) 
CORY: We've got to get this capsule off, and fast. There's a city down there, A Dalek city. I got quite close. Close enough to hear an announcement through the loudspeaker system. 
LOWERY: What did you hear? 
CORY: Our whole galaxy is to be invaded and destroyed. 
LOWERY: Kill. 
CORY: What? 
LOWERY: Kill. Kill. 
(The truth dawns on Cory.) 
CORY: The Varga! 
LOWERY: That's right. I'll soon, soon I shall be one of them. Kill. Kill, 
(Lowery brings his gun up, but Cory is quicker. Lowery slumps to the ground, dead. Businesslike, Cory turns his attention to the rescue beacon, and begins recording his message.) 
CORY: Marc Cory, Special Security Service, reporting from the planet Kembel. The Daleks are planning the complete destruction of our galaxy. Together with the powers of the outer galaxies, a war force is being assembled. 
(Elsewhere in the jungle) 
DALEK 1: Seismic detector is registering. 
DALEK 2: The crew from the rocket ship must be in this direction. 
DALEK 1: Are they to be taken for questioning? 
DALEK 2: No. They are to be exterminated. Destroy them on sight. Destroy and exterminate! 
DALEKS: We obey. 
(Unaware the Daleks are closing in on his position, Cory continues his recording.) 
CORY: If our galaxy is to be saved, whoever receives this message must relay this information to Earth immediately. It is vital that defence mechanisms are put into operation at once! Message ends. 
(Surrounded by Daleks, Cory struggles to launch the capsule.) 
DALEK 2: Fire. He is dead. 
DALEK 1: Our plans for the galactic conquest are safe. Whatever information he discovered has died with him. Return to the city. 
DALEKS: We obey. 
(As the Daleks move away, the capsule containing Cory's warning message lies unnoticed near his body.)

[Conference room]

MALPHA: Now all is ready. We at this table pledge our allegiance to the Dalek cause. Our armies will reduce the galaxies to ashes. Their people to dust. And Earth we will conquer first. Victory! Victory! 
ALL: Victory! Victory! Victory!

[Plain outside Troy]

(On the plain outside the ancient city of Troy, two men are fighting.) 
HECTOR: Achilles! 
ACHILLES: Over here, stable keeper. Barbarian horse worshipper! 
HECTOR: Out of breath so soon, my light-foot princeling? Your friend Petrocolus fled me further, and made better sport! 
ACHILLES: Murderer! Petrocolus was a boy. 
HECTOR: A boy? Well he died like a dog, whimpering after his master Achilles! How! Let me send you to him where he waits in Hades. Let me throw the dog a bone or two! 
(Achilles lunges at Hector, who easily parries the thrust. They circle round each other warily.) 
HECTOR: What? So anxious to be gone? Well, I would not keep you for the world. 
ACHILLES: Your bones would be the meatier, Trojan. Though meat a trifle rough at that. Well, all's one. They will whiten well enough in the sun! 
(Enraged, Achilles attacks again, and Hector counters every blow. Hector seems to be gaining the upper hand when Achilles turns and dodges out of reach, running past and ignoring the blue police box which has no place in the middle of a Trojan plain. Hector follows, calling after him.) 
HECTOR: Run, Achilles! Run! Run a little more, before you die!

[Tardis]

VICKI: What sort of people are they, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm not sure, my child. You'll notice they're wearing Grecian costumes. 
VICKI: They don't seem to have noticed us. 
STEVEN: That's hardly surprising in the circumstances. Why do you suppose they're fighting? 
DOCTOR: I haven't the remotest idea, my boy. No doubt their reasons will be entirely adequate. Yes, I think I perhaps I'd better go and ask them where we are. 
VICKI: Doctor, be careful! They look terribly fierce. 
DOCTOR: Oh, what nonsense. If you take notice of them, I think they're doing more talking than they are fighting. I think I'd better go and ask them where we are. 
VICKI: Doctor, you can't! You know if you go out there by yourself you'll g 
DOCTOR: Now you stay here, my dear, and look after that ankle. 
STEVEN: Wouldn't it be better if I went? 
DOCTOR: Not at all, young man. You stay here and keep an eye on Vicki. Besides, I don't think your present humour is fitting for the occasion. You know, I don't think they'd appreciate your kind of sarcasm.

[Plain outside Troy]

ACHILLES: The gods of my people, Hector, are not lightly mocked. They are terrible! And Troy itself is doomed to fall at their bidding, even as you are. You cannot stand against them. 
HECTOR: You pretend that old Father Zeus will descend to Earth and take Troy for you. I guarantee to trim his beard for him if he dare attempt it! 
(thunder) 
ACHILLES: Beware the voice of Zeus, Hector. Beware the anger of Olympus. 
HECTOR: Oh, I do not fear the thunder, you superstitious, dark-dodging decadent! Hear me, Zeus! Accept from me the promised life of your cringing servant Achilles! Or else, I challenge you. Descend to Earth and save him! 
(Hector lunges at Achilles as the Doctor emerges from the Tardis, and Hector falls to his knees, amazed.) 
HECTOR: Zeus! Forgive me. 
(With Hector distracted, Achilles runs him through with his sword.) 
DOCTOR: Stop! You must not kick a man when he is down. You have killed this poor fellow! 
ACHILLES: Oh, but in your name. 
DOCTOR: In my name, indeed! Get up! Get up, I tell you! This is terrible. 
ACHILLES: If Zeus bids me to rise. 
DOCTOR: What is this? What is it you take me for? 
ACHILLES: The Father of the Gods and ruler of the world. 
DOCTOR: What! Do you really? And who might you be, may I ask? 
ACHILLES: Achilles. Mightiest of warriors, greatest in battle, humblest of your servants. 
DOCTOR: Well, if I may say so, you're not very humble, are you? Yes, I think I know you. Yes. And this friend of yours must be 
ACHILLES: Hector, Prince of Troy. Sent to Hades for blasphemy against the gods of Greece. 
DOCTOR: Blasphemy? I'm sure he didn't mean it. 
ACHILLES: He threatened to trim your beard should you descend to Earth. 
DOCTOR: Oh, did he now? Well, if you notice, I have no beard. 
ACHILLES: If you had appeared to me in your true form, I would have been truly blinded by your radiance. It is well known that when you come amongst us you adopt many different forms. 
DOCTOR: Oh, do I? 
ACHILLES: To Europa, you appeared as a bull. To Leda, as a swan. To me, in the guise of an old beggar. 
DOCTOR: I beg your pardon. I do nothing of the kind! 
ACHILLES: Oh, but still your glory shines through! 
DOCTOR: Oh, indeed. Indeed so. Yes, so I should hope. Yes, well, thank you. I'm glad to meet you. Now, if you will excuse me, I must get back to my temple. Attend to his funeral. 
ACHILLES: Oh, stop! You must not go. 
DOCTOR: Do you realise whom you are addressing? 
ACHILLES: Forgive me, father Zeus, I spoke hastily. 
DOCTOR: Then do not hinder me, or I will strike you with a thunderbolt! 
ACHILLES: I must brave even the wrath of Zeus, and implore you to remain. 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't see why I should. I have many other commitments, you must understand. 
ACHILLES: And one of them lies here, in the camp of Agamemnon, our general. Oh, hear me out, I pray. For ten long years now we have laid siege to Troy and still they defy us. Come.

[Tardis]

(In the Tardis, Vicki and Steven watch on the scanner as Achilles leads the Doctor to the top of a ridge.) 
STEVEN: Where's he off to now? It's a fine time to go looking at the view. 
VICKI: After all, that's why he went out there, to find out where we are. Anyway, that man looks quite friendly now. He's probably showing him the way to the nearest town. 
STEVEN: Hmm, I wonder. I think I'd better try and find some more suitable clothes.

[Plain outside Troy]

ACHILLES: There they sit, secure behind their walls, whilst we rot in their summers and starve in their crack-bone winters. 
(The Doctor and Achilles gaze upon the distant walled city is disturbed by the arrival of Odysseus, King of Ithaca, accompanied by a group of soldiers.) 
ODYSSEUS: What's this, Achilles? So far from camp, all unprotected from a prisoner? 
ACHILLES: Odysseus, this is no prisoner. 
DOCTOR: Certainly not. 
ODYSSEUS: Not yet a prisoner? You should have called for assistance, lad. We would not like to lose you. Come, let us escort you homewards. Night might fall and find thee from thy tent. 
DOCTOR: I wouldn't stand for that if I were you! 
ODYSSEUS: Are, but then, old fellow, you are not the Lord Achilles. He is not the one to look for trouble, are you, boy? 
ACHILLES: Have a care, pirate. Are there no Trojan throats to slit, that you dare tempt my sword? 
ODYSSEUS: Throats enough, I grant you. Some half score Trojans will not whistle easy tonight. But what of you? 
ACHILLES: Oh, but a trifle. I met Prince Hector. Here he lies. 
ODYSSEUS: Zeus! 
ACHILLES: Was instrumental. 
ODYSSEUS: No doubt, no doubt. But what a year is this for plague. Even the strongest might fall. Prince Hector, ha, that he should come to this. You met him here, you say, as he lay dying? 
ACHILLES: I met him, Odysseus, in single combat. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, it's true. 
ODYSSEUS: And raced him round the walls till down he fell exhausted. A famous victory. 
ACHILLES: I met him face to face, I say. Battled with him for an hour or more, until my greater strength overcame him. 
ODYSSEUS: Bravo. But tell me, Lightfoot, what of Zeus? You say he intervened, and then? 
ACHILLES: Why, there he stands, and listens to your mockery. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, I find it most interesting. 
ODYSSEUS: What? This old man? This threadbare grey pate? Oh come, Achilles. 
ACHILLES: Oh, forgive him, father Zeus! He is but a rough and simple sailor. 
ODYSSEUS: Aye, very rough, but scarce as simple as you seem to think. What have we here? 
(Odysseus approaches the Tardis to examine it.)

[Tardis]

VICKI: Steven, he's coming in. 
(Steven has changed into Greek robes) 
STEVEN: No, the Doctor'll stop him. I must go out and help. 
VICKI: No. Don't. Just a minute. Here. Take this, and wait behind the door, hmm?

[Plain outside Troy]

ODYSSEUS: The temple of Zeus, you say? A trifle modest, is it not, for so powerful a god. 
DOCTOR: This is my travelling temple. Being small, it's convenient. 
ACHILLES: You shall not enter. 
DOCTOR: Certainly not! In any case, I must be off. 
ACHILLES: Oh, then will you not stay with us? 
DOCTOR: No. I, er 
ODYSSEUS: What? You will to the Grecian camp. If indeed you be Zeus, we have need of your assistance. Now, do not cower there, lads. Zeus is on our side, so Agamemnon keeps insisting. Bear him up, and let us carry him in triumph to the camp. 
DOCTOR: I am quite capable of walking. 
ACHILLES: Odysseus, I claim the honour to escort him. Let him walk to camp with me. 
ODYSSEUS: You shall have honour enough, and maybe we shall have a little of the truth. Father Zeus, we await you. We crave the pleasure of your company at supper, and perhaps a tale or two of Aphrodite? 
DOCTOR: I refuse to enter into any kind of vulgar bawdry. 
ODYSSEUS: Then you shall tell why we find you lurking near our lines. That should prove equally entertaining. Take him, lads! And two of you there, take up this carrion! 
DOCTOR: Have a care! Do not touch me! 
ACHILLES: You will pay for this, Odysseus. 
ODYSSEUS: Ha, will I? We shall see. This much must we do for the Lord Achilles, lest none believe his story. 
ACHILLES: You will not laugh so loud, I think, when Agamemnon hears of this.

[Tardis]

(From the Tardis, Steven and Vicki watch as the soldiers march out of sight, carrying the Doctor.) 
STEVEN: I am going after him. I'm sure he's been taken prisoner. 
VICKI: Oh, come on. The big man was laughing. 
STEVEN: It didn't look as though the Doctor made a joke. 
VICKI: Anyway, we don't even know where we are. 
STEVEN: Well, the Doctor said they were Greeks. We're probably in Greece. 
VICKI: Oh, but that would be wonderful, wouldn't it? We might meet the Heroes. We might 
STEVEN: Those men who carried off the Doctor wouldn't be heroes, or anything like them. That's why I've got to go and get him. 
VICKI: Well, I'm coming with you. 
STEVEN: And how far do you think you can get on that ankle? 
VICKI: It's not so bad now. I'll manage. 
STEVEN: No. You stay here. Rest your ankle, watch the scanners. You'll be perfectly safe. When you see the Doctor and me coming, open the doors. But not otherwise. 
VICKI: But Steven, we mustn't 
STEVEN: No! I haven't got time to argue. I want to get to the Doctor before they cut his head off. Now stay here. 
VICKI: Goodbye. I hope you find the Doctor, that's all.

[Agamemnon's tent]

(The Greek encampment is a short distance from the walls of Troy. Inside the largest tent in the camp, the army's general, Agamemnon, is feasting with his brother, Menelaus.) 
AGAMEMNON: Now you drink too much, Menelaus. I've told you about it before. Why can't you learn to behave like a king instead of a dropsical old camp follower? Have a little dignity. Try to remember that you're my brother, can't you? 
MENELAUS: One of the reasons I drink, Agamemnon, is to forget that I am your brother. Another is this ridiculous Trojan expedition. We've been here for ten years! I want to go home. Besides, I'm not getting any younger. 
AGAMEMNON: You won't get any older if you talk to me like that, brother or no brother. What's the matter with you, man? Don't you want to get Helen back? Don't you don't you want to see your wife again? 
MENELAUS: Quite frankly, no. If you must know, I was heartily glad to see the back of her. 
AGAMEMNON: You mustn't talk like that in front of these. 
MENELAUS: It wasn't the first time she'd allowed herself to be abducted. I can't keep on going off to the ends of the Earth to get her back. It makes me a laughing stock. 
AGAMEMNON: Now you knew perfectly well what she was like before you married her. Besides, this is a question of honour, to get her back. Family honour, don't you understand? 
MENELAUS: Not to mention the trade routes through the Bosphorus, of course. 
AGAMEMNON: What have they got to do with it? 
MENELAUS: It isn't enough for you that you control the Achaean League, is it? Now you want to take over Asia Minor as well, only King Priam of Troy stands in your way. 
AGAMEMNON: May I remind you that these ambitions would have been served just as well if you had killed Paris in single combat, as you were expected to? 
MENELAUS: Yes. But, I 
AGAMEMNON: And don't interrupt. 
MENELAUS: Oh. 
AGAMEMNON: Priam would have been quite prepared to let this contest settle the issue between us. 
MENELAUS: Yes. But 
AGAMEMNON: Don't blame me because you've landed us into a full scale war. 
MENELAUS: Yes, but I did challenge Paris, if you remember, ten years ago. Fellow wouldn't accept. 
AGAMEMNON: He's just about as cowardly as you are. 
MENELAUS: For the last time, I am not a coward. 
AGAMEMNON: Well in that case, why don't you challenge someone else? 
MENELAUS: Anyone. 
AGAMEMNON: Challenge Hector. 
MENELAUS: Hector? Hector? Are you mad? Why, that'd be suicide. 
AGAMEMNON: Well, you don't know until you've tried it, do you? You know, I think that's a very good idea of yours. 
MENELAUS: Oh. So you want to see me killed, is that it? Is nothing sacred to you? 
AGAMEMNON: A brother's honour. I hold that more sacred than anything else. That's why I shall issue the challenge in the morning, on your behalf. 
MENELAUS: On my behalf? 
ACHILLES: My king. Hector is dead. 
AGAMEMNON: What? How did this happen? 
ACHILLES: This very day. I slew him after an hour or more of single combat. 
AGAMEMNON: Oh, you did. Oh dear. There's another good idea wasted. 
ACHILLES: And what do you mean, wasted? Here have I been, fight 
AGAMEMNON: Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. It's only that Menelaus was just about to challenge him. 
MENELAUS: Now don't think I'm not pleased with what you've done. I am. 
AGAMEMNON: Sit down. Tell us all about it. 
ACHILLES: But, I have other more important news, and there isn't much time. 
MENELAUS: What, more important than the death of Hector? 
ACHILLES: At the height of my battle with Hector, there came a sudden lightning flash, and Zeus appeared before me. 
MENELAUS: Zeus! Oh. Eh? 
AGAMEMNON: It's all right, he's been listening to too much propaganda, haven't you, Achilles? You mustn't take so much notice of that. 
ACHILLES: Look, I tell you it's true. He appeared to me from nowhere in the shape of a little old man. 
AGAMEMNON: Oh! Where is he now, this little old Zeus? 
ACHILLES: He was about to accompany me here when Odysseus and his men arrived. They took him prisoner. 
AGAMEMNON: They what? 
ACHILLES: Odysseus mocked him then they seized him and are bringing him to camp. I ran ahead to warn you. 
AGAMEMNON: You did well. Perdition take Odysseus. You can't be too careful in matters like this. He may in fact be Zeus. Guard! Go find the Lord Odysseus. Command his presence here. (A while later, Odysseus, having received the command, storms into Agamemnon's tent.) 
ODYSSEUS: Who dares command Odysseus? Well, Agamemnon, is it you? Well, we will not quarrel when we have a guest of such importance. Here's this old man, claims to be our father Zeus. 
(The Doctor is shoved into the tent.) 
DOCTOR: You may rise. I am most displeased. Who is in command here? 
AGAMEMNON: I have that honour. 
DOCTOR: As I have always understood. Yet this mountebank Odysseus appears to be a law unto himself. He makes fun of his guests, and laughs at Zeus. 
AGAMEMNON: He will be reprimanded, if you are indeed who you say you are. 
DOCTOR: If I am not a god, how do you account for my supernatural knowledge? 
AGAMEMNON: Knowledge of what? 
DOCTOR: I could tell you one or two things that might surprise you. 
AGAMEMNON: Oh? Name one. 
DOCTOR: Your wife, for instance, is unfaithful to you. 
AGAMEMNON: What! 
ODYSSEUS: Everyone knows that. 
MENELAUS: I've never heard it. 
ODYSSEUS: Everyone, that is, except you and him, of course. 
AGAMEMNON: Silence! I will not have my wife's name banded about like that. Besides, we have no way of checking on your slanderous assertions, divinely inspired or no. What do you advise? 
DOCTOR: Then treat me with honour and return me to my temple, before I really become angry. 
ACHILLES: I tell you, Agamemnon, he has come to help us. 
DOCTOR: If I were an enemy, what could one man do alone and unarmed against the glory that is Greece, hmm? 
AGAMEMNON: Glory that is Greece, hmm? A neat phrase. 
ODYSSEUS: The man is a spy. Deal with him and be brief, or I shall undertake it for you. 
ACHILLES: After I am dead, Odysseus, and only then. 
ODYSSEUS: If you so insist, I shall be most happy to oblige, Lightfoot. 
AGAMEMNON: Silence! This is time for thought, not swordplay. 
ODYSSEUS: Well, since my thoughts are of such little account, allow me to withdraw. 
ACHILLES: Forgive him, father Zeus. The man is a boor. If you command me, I will deal with him. 
DOCTOR: No, no, Achilles, leave him. Why try to kill him now when you are in sight of victory. 
AGAMEMNON: Do you prophesy as much as that? 
DOCTOR: I could almost guarantee it. 
MENELAUS: Almost? Oh, not another ten years. 
DOCTOR: But first I would like to know am I to be treated as a god, or as an enemy? If you kill me now, it will probably cost you the war. 
AGAMEMNON: Yes, that is so. On the other hand, if we don't kill you and you are a spy, the same thing might happen. I propose to place you under arrest. 
DOCTOR: Arrest? But I must return to my TAR, er, my temple. 
AGAMEMNON: A reverent arrest. You must not be offended. We shall enjoy the benefit of your experience and your advice, and in return you will enjoy our hospitality. 
DOCTOR: Very well. 
AGAMEMNON: Excellent. Do sit down and have a ham bone. 
(Resigned to his fate, the Doctor joins Agamemnon and his brother at their table.)

[Greek camp]

Steven has waited until nightfall to approach the Greek encampment. Now, under cover of darkness, he picks his way towards the lights of the camp, dodging past the dozen sentries. But Steven's progress is observed from the shadows by a man with a patch over one eye. The Greek spy, Cyclops. Odysseus meanwhile dismisses the guard outside Agamemnon's tent in the hope of overhearing something of use from within.) 
ODYSSEUS: Get thee to thy rest. 
(Once the guard has gone, Cyclops emerges from the shadows.) 
ODYSSEUS: Ah, my little Cyclops. What news, hmm? 
(Cyclops gestures.) 
ODYSSEUS: The stranger? Ah, the other stranger. Another stranger. From the temple. Temple. In the camp! You think he is my enemy. You have done well. Now, my little chatterbox, go back to the temple, see what happens, hmm? 
(Odysseus spots Steven approaching.) 
ODYSSEUS: Get you gone. 
(Cyclops leaves and Odysseus ducks out of sight. As Steven peers into the tent, the Greek appears out of the shadows behind him.) 
ODYSSEUS: What have we here? Another god, perhaps? 
STEVEN: No, I'm just a traveller. I lost my way and saw the light. 
ODYSSEUS: At least the god Apollo, to walk invisible past sentries. 
STEVEN: Sentries? I saw no sentries. 
ODYSSEUS: Oh? Then perhaps they are sleeping with a knife between their ribs. Shall we go seek them together? 
STEVEN: Put away your sword. I'm a friend. 
ODYSSEUS: But a friend of whom? 
STEVEN: What do you mean? 
ODYSSEUS: That, that god who feasts yonder, that Trojan spy. 
STEVEN: I don't know him. 
ODYSSEUS: Do you not? We shall see! Move!

[Agamemnon's tent]

(Odysseus pushes Steven into Agamemnon's tent.) 
AGAMEMNON: Who is this? 
ODYSSEUS: My prisoner, the god Apollo. Achilles, will you not worship him? He is a Trojan spy, but of such undoubted divinity he must be spared. 
AGAMEMNON: Are you a Trojan, fellow? 
STEVEN: No, of course not. I'm just a traveller, of a sort. 
AGAMEMNON: Do you know this man? 
DOCTOR: Only for what he seems to be. 
ODYSSEUS: An acquaintance from Olympus, come to meet his father. 
STEVEN: My father? I've never seen him before in my life. 
AGAMEMNON: That's enough! Take him away, Odysseus. Why should I be troubled with such petty prisoners? Cut out his tongue for insolence, and make an end. 
ODYSSEUS: Softly now! All-seeing Zeus, you see into our very hearts and know their secrets? 
DOCTOR: Quite so. 
ODYSSEUS: Then is this man a spy? 
DOCTOR: I do not know, and I do not care. 
ODYSSEUS: Shall he then be put to death? 
DOCTOR: I think it would be much safer on the whole. Stop! Have you lost your senses? 
ODYSSEUS: Now we have it! On second thoughts, you think we should release him to return to Troy. 
DOCTOR: Do not mock me, my Lord Odysseus. Would you stain the tent of Agamemnon's with a Trojan's blood? I claim this man as a sacrifice to Olympus! Bring him to my temple in the plain, at sunrise in the morning, and I will show you a miracle. 
ODYSSEUS: A miracle. Oh, that would be most satisfactory. 
MENELAUS: Convincing proof, I would say. 
AGAMEMNON: What sort of miracle would 
DOCTOR: I will strike him with a bolt from heaven! 
ODYSSEUS: Very spectacular! 
(Two guards drag the struggling Cyclops into the tent. AGAMEMNON: Ah, what's this? Who's this? 
ODYSSEUS: Release him. 
AGAMEMNON: All right, Odysseus. Who is this man? 
ODYSSEUS: My Cyclops. My little servant. So. 
AGAMEMNON: Well, can't he speak? 
ODYSSEUS: Alas no more. For once he spoke too loud for comfort, and stammered on a knife. But he speaks to me. Get you gone and wait for me. Thunder at the temple tomorrow, did you say? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I did. 
ODYSSEUS: Our weather is so unpredictable. If there is no thunder on the plain, I have a sword will serve for two as well as one. Your temple, as you call it, has disappeared. 
DOCTOR: Disappeared? 
ODYSSEUS: Vanished into thin air.

Episode Two - Small Prophet, Quick Return

[Plain outside Troy]

(The following morning, the Doctor, Steven, Agamemnon, Odysseus and a company of soldiers travel to the place where the Tardis landed. There is no sign of the ship.) 
AGAMEMNON: Well, father Zeus, where is this temple of yours? 
DOCTOR: Well, it should be about here somewhere. Rather hard to understand, these sandy plains are so much alike. 
AGAMEMNON: Well, something has been here. Look. 
ODYSSEUS: And someone, too. For see, some several tracks lead off to Troy. Lord Agamemnon, admit your fault. These men are spies! 
AGAMEMNON: So it would begin to seem. Bring on the prisoner. Well, father Zeus, you have but one chance left to prove yourself. Kill this Trojan spy. 
ODYSSEUS: Yes, fling a thunderbolt or some such to rise to the occasion. 
DOCTOR: This sacrifice can only be performed within the temple. 
ODYSSEUS: Which temple is in Troy, therefore would we release you? Just so. I for one have had enough. 
DOCTOR: Do not labour this point. I am not Zeus, and this young man is a friend of mine. Neither of us are Trojans, sir. 
AGAMEMNON: I care not who you are. Seize him! It is enough that you have trifled with my credulity and made me look a fool in front of all my captains. Now, finish the business and be brief. And do not bring their bodies back. Let them rot here, so that they can be an example to their fellows. 
STEVEN: Are you quite sure Vicki couldn't have dematerialised the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Of course she couldn't. I told you last night. 
ODYSSEUS: First of all, myrmidons. Who are you? 
DOCTOR: I think you had better tell him. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, this may take some time. 
ODYSSEUS: I will be patient. But this time, if you value your lives, do not lie to me.

[Troy city square]

(In the main square of Troy, a crowd has gathered. A group of soldiers are man-handling the off the cart that brought it into the city.) 
PARIS: Sound the trumpets! Dismiss! 
PRIAM: Silence! Great Horse of Asia, is none of us to rest? Who's there? 
PARIS: Paris, father, returned from patrol. 
PRIAM: Well, what news? Have you avenged your brother Hector? Have you? Have you killed Achilles? 
PARIS: I sought Achilles, father, even to the Grecian lines, but he skulked within his tent. He feared to face me. 
PRIAM: Well go back and wait until he gets his courage up. Upon my soul, what sort of brother are you? Furthermore, what sort of son? What, what is that you have got there? 
PARIS: Ah. A prize, father, captured from the Greeks. 
PRIAM: Hmm, captured, you say? I wager they were glad to see the back of it. What is it? 
PARIS: What is it? Well, it's, ah it's, ah sort of, er, a shrine, or so it seems. 
(King Priam strides up to the Tardis door and tries to open it. Inside, Vicki watches with increasing horror as Priam's face looms on the scanner.) 
PRIAM: And what, may I ask, do you propose to do with this seeming shrine? 
PARIS: Well, I had rather thought of putting it in the temple. 
CASSANDRA: Ha! You're not putting that in my temple. 
PRIAM: I should think not indeed, bringing back blessed shrines. Go back and bring Achilles' body, if you want to do something useful. Get back to the war. 
CASSANDRA: And take that thing with you. 
PARIS: Oh, really! If you if you knew the weight of this, this, this thing. Father, if Cassandra doesn't want it, can't we just leave it where it is for the moment? 
PRIAM: In the middle of the square? 
PARIS: Yes. I mean, it could be a sort of, er, sort of a monument. 
CASSANDRA: A monument to what? 
PARIS: Well, to my initiative, for instance. After all, it is the first sizeable trophy we've captured since the war started. Probably turn out to be very useful. 
CASSANDRA: What sort of use would you suggest? 
PARIS: What sort of use. Well, I don't quite know, actually. But, I mean, once we've examined it thoroughly, it'll probably prove to have all sorts of uses. 
CASSANDRA: I'm quite sure. Uses to the Greeks. 
PARIS: What do you mean? 
CASSANDRA: Why do you imagine that they allowed you to capture it? 
PARIS: Allowed me? Allowed me? Now you look here, Cassandra. 
CASSANDRA: Where did you find it? 
PARIS: Where'd I find it? Where d'you think? Out there in the middle of the plain. 
CASSANDRA: Unguarded, I suppose. 
PARIS: Yes, of course. I, I mean, yes, it was. 
CASSANDRA: Just as I thought. Can't you see that you were meant to bring it into Troy? 
PARIS: No, I can't see, quite frankly. 
PRIAM: I think I'm beginning to see. 
PARIS: What are you two getting at? 
CASSANDRA: You've broken my dreams. The auguries were bad this morning. I woke full of foreboding. 
PARIS: Never knew her when she didn't. 
PRIAM: Paris, your sister is High Priestess. Let her speak. 
PARIS: All right, Cassandra. Now, what was this dream about? 
CASSANDRA: Thank you. I dreamed that out on the plain the Greeks had left a gift, and although what it was remained unclear, we brought it into Troy. Then at night, from out its belly, soldiers came and fell upon us as we slept. 
PARIS: Yes, well I hardly think we need trouble to interpret that one. Oh really, Cassandra, have you looked at this thing, as you call it? I mean, just how many soldiers do you think you can get inside that? A whole regiment, perhaps? I mean, you'd be very lucky to get even two medium-sized soldiers out of that thing. 
CASSANDRA: Fool! One soldier could unbar the gate and so admit an army. It's exactly the sort of scheme Odysseus would think of. 
PRIAM: Why don't we open the thing and see? 
PARIS: Yes, well, that is rather the point. You see, there is a door, but it doesn't seem to open. 
CASSANDRA: Just as I said, it's locked from the inside. 
PRIAM: Oh, it is, is it? Stand aside. 
(Priam attacks the Tardis door with Paris' sword, but to no effect.) 
PARIS: Well, there you are, father. Perhaps you'll believe me next time, I suppose. Oh, Cassandra, perhaps you would like to care to have a try. 
CASSANDRA: The thing need not be opened. Bring branches, fire and sacrificial oil. We'll make of it an offering to the gods of Troy. And if there be someone within, so much the greater gift.

[Tardis]

(Panicked by what she's heard, Vicki goes to the Tardis wardrobe room to find something suitable to wear. She becomes increasingly agitated as she fails to find anything appropriate.)

[Plain outside Troy]

(Steven meanwhile is trying to explain their presence to Odysseus.) 
STEVEN: So really, you see, we arrived in your time entirely by accident. It's just another miscalculation by the Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Well, I would hardly call it a miscalculation, my boy. 
STEVEN: Well, then, what would you call it? 
DOCTOR: Well, I think with all eternity to choose from, I did rather well to get us back to Earth. 
STEVEN: I'm very glad you're pleased with yourself. I suppose I should be grateful for standing here, trussed like a chicken, ready to have me throat cut. 
ODYSSEUS: No one mentioned cutting throats. 
DOCTOR: No, they didn't. 
ODYSSEUS: I had I had something more lingering in mind. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, I dare say. I suppose some kind of ritual death, I presume? 
ODYSSEUS: Sit down. Sit down! In my life I have travelled far, and met many deplorable people, but not one of them has had the credulity strained as I have strained today by your effrontery, Doctor. Your story is probably true, otherwise you would never have dared to tell it. Stand up! I propose to release you. 
STEVEN: We might have expected That's very nice of you. 
ODYSSEUS: No, no, it isn't. Release, but on certain conditions. 
DOCTOR: And what are those conditions, may I ask? 
ODYSSEUS: That you use your supernatural knowledge to devise a scheme whereby we capture Troy. I will give you two days. Two days to think of something really ingenious. 
DOCTOR: Two days! That isn't very long, is it. 
ODYSSEUS: It should be ample if you are as clever as you say you are. 
STEVEN: What happens if we fail? 
ODYSSEUS: If I fail, then I shall have been foolish. And I would hate to seem foolish having believed your story. Indeed, I should be very, very angry! 
(Odysseus brings his sword down to neatly sever the traveller's bonds.)

[Troy city square]

(In the main square of Troy, branches have been piled around the base of the Tardis. Priam, Paris and Cassandra watch as a priestess pours oil over the wood. Soldiers stand ready with torches.) 
PRIAM: That should make quite a blaze. 
PARIS: Yes. Just one moment. Before we actually light the fire, shouldn't we see if such a gift would be acceptable to the gods? I mean, if it does contain treachery, might it not seem the most awful insult? 
PRIAM: Oh, good point, I suppose. Have a word with them, Cassandra. 
CASSANDRA: I assure you it's quite unnecessary. 
PARIS: Yes, but better to be on the safe side. Don't you think? 
CASSANDRA: Oh, hear me, you horses of the heavens, who gallop with our destiny. If you would accept this gift, let us see a sign. Show us your will, I pray you, for we are merely mortal and need your guidance. 
(At that moment, Vicki steps down from the Tardis, dressed in an elegant gown.) 
PARIS: Well! 
(She smiles disarmingly) 
PARIS: This is no horse of heaven. 
PRIAM: And this is no soldier either. 
CASSANDRA: Who are you? 
VICKI: I'm nobody of any importance. I'm just someone from the future. 
PARIS: The future? 
CASSANDRA: How do you so? You're no Trojan goddess. Are you some puny pagan goddess of the Greeks? 
VICKI: Of course not. I'm as human as you are. 
CASSANDRA: Then how comes it that you claim to know the future? 
PARIS: Oh really, Cassandra. You're always going on and on about it yourself. 
CASSANDRA: I'm a priestess, skilled in augury. 
PARIS: Yes, I know, all those dreary flights of birds and entrails and all that kind of thing. Well, I mean, perhaps she's read the same ones. I shouldn't imagine you have a monopoly. 
CASSANDRA: Are you a priestess? 
VICKI: Not that I know of. I mean, I never took any exams or anything. 
CASSANDRA: Then how dare you practice prophecy! 
VICKI: Well, I haven't done yet, have I? 
CASSANDRA: She's some drab of Agamemnon's, sent to spread dissention. 
VICKI: I'm nothing of the sort. 
PARIS: Of course you're not. I can tell. 
VICKI: I've never even met Agamemnon. 
PRIAM: I wish to question her. Come here, child. That's better. Now, are you a Greek? 
VICKI: No, I am from the future. So you see, I don't have to prophesy, because as far as I'm concerned, the future has already happened! 
PRIAM: I don't quite follow. 
CASSANDRA: Of course you don't. She's trying to confuse you. Kill the girl before she addles all our wits. She's a sorceress. She must die. 
PARIS: Oh, don't be absurd. You're not to touch her. 
PRIAM: I wish you'd both keep quiet just for a moment. Now don't be frightened, child. You shall die when I say so, and not a moment before. 
VICKI: That's very comforting. 
PRIAM: Now, you see? Neither of you has the least idea how to handle children. All you need is a little kindness and understanding. Now, first of all, what is your name? 
VICKI: Vicki. 
PRIAM: Vicki? That's a very outlandish name. 
CASSANDRA: A heathen sort of name, if you ask me. 
PRIAM: Nobody did ask you, Cassandra. Well, I really don't think we can call you Vicki. We shall have to think another one for you, shan't we? Let me see, how about, Cressida. Would you think that would be all right? 
VICKI: It's a very pretty name. 
PRIAM: Very well, then. Cressida it shall be. Now you claim, Cressida, to come from the future? 
VICKI: Yes. 
PRIAM: So you know everything that's going to happen. 
VICKI: Well, I 
PRIAM: Look, Cressida, come into the palace. I expect you could do with something to eat. 
VICKI: Oh, thank you, that would be very nice. 
PARIS: Ah, that's a very good idea, I've not eaten since the 
PRIAM: You get back to the war! If you've not killed Achilles by nightfall, I shall be seriously displeased. 
PARIS: But look, father, why couldn't Troilus go? I mean, it's much more his sort of thing. 
PRIAM: Hector. Don't argue, Paris! Get back to the war! 
PARIS: Right. Well, bye, Cressida. We shall meet again this evening, all being well. 
VICKI: Goodbye, Paris. Thank you very much for trying to help me. 
PARIS: Oh, not at all. It was a great pleasure. 
PRIAM: Come, Cressida. You and I have a great deal to say to each other. I have a feeling you are going to bring us luck. 
CASSANDRA: She will bring nothing but doom, death and disaster. 
PRIAM: Don't pay any attention to Cassandra. She takes the gloomiest view. I suspect it's a kind of insurance, so that if things do go wrong she can always say 'I told you so.' Come along. 
CASSANDRA: Hear me, gods of Troy. Strike with your lightnings this usurper. Or show me a sign that she is false, and then I'll strike her down myself!

[Greek tent]

(In a tent in the Greek camp, Steven and the Doctor are discussing plans for the capture of Troy.) 
STEVEN: Why not the wooden horse? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear boy, I couldn't possibly suggest that. The whole story is obviously absurd. Probably invented by Homer as some good dramatic device. No, I think it would be completely impractical. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, if you say so, Doctor. But in that case, hurry up and think of something else. The only way we can rescue Vicki is to get into Troy. We've only got two days left. 
DOCTOR: Oh, patience, my 
ODYSSEUS: Rather less now. Haven't you thought of anything yet? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Well, I have thought up of some conditions of my own. 
ODYSSEUS: Oh, really? I don't see how you're going to enforce them, but what are they? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's all very simple. That is, if you want me to help you sack the city, you must promise me that Vicki will be spared. 
ODYSSEUS: Vicki? Who's she? 
STEVEN: Oh, you know, I told you about her. Look, if they have taken the time machine into Troy, then she'll still be inside it. 
ODYSSEUS: I hope she is, for her sake. Because if she left it, she's past worrying about now. 
DOCTOR: Well, we're not quite sure of that, are we? 
ODYSSEUS: Perhaps not, but I don't know what you expect me to do about it. When we enter Troy, I can't stop every woman and ask her if she's a friend of yours. It wouldn't be practical. 
MESSENGER: Lord Odysseus? 
ODYSSEUS: Yes, what is it? 
MESSENGER: Prince Paris has called again for my Lord Achilles. 
ODYSSEUS: Well? 
MESSENGER: Our Lord Agamemnon asked that you go in his stead. 
ODYSSEUS: To fight that fool? 
MESSENGER: Yes. 
ODYSSEUS: That puny princeling cannot fight! A waste of time. Go tell our Lord Agamemnon, if he wants someone to fight Achilles' battles, to go himself. Now get out. 
STEVEN: Is Paris such a bad fighter? 
ODYSSEUS: The weakling cannot stomach killing. 
STEVEN: Let me go to Troy. Now, before you attack. 
ODYSSEUS: What's that? 
STEVEN: To get Vicki. After all, I'm no use here. I'm sure the Doctor can manage very well without me. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, are you quite sure? 
STEVEN: Look, it's perfectly simple. I allow Paris to take me prisoner. 
ODYSSEUS: You really are most anxious to die. They will take you for a spy, as we did. 
STEVEN: Not if I were wearing a uniform. I'd be a prisoner of war. 
ODYSSEUS: Well, I don't know what they're doing with their prisoners of war at the moment. It rather depends on how they're feeling at the time, I imagine. They're a very unpredictable lot, these Trojans. 
STEVEN: Well, I'm prepared to take the risk if you're prepared to let me go. 
ODYSSEUS: Really, that's very courageous of you. 
STEVEN: Then you'll help me? 
ODYSSEUS: I don't see why not, because as you said, you're of little particular use here. 
STEVEN: What about the uniform? 
ODYSSEUS: Ah! Ah, let me see. Last week, my friend Diomede died from his wounds in this camp. Now, you're about his size. You'll find his thing in the next tent. 
STEVEN: Thank you, Odysseus. 
ODYSSEUS: You really are a very brave man indeed. I should have been most distressed to have had to put you to death myself. 
STEVEN: A very consoling thought. I'll see you both before I go. 
ODYSSEUS: Now then, Doctor, to work. I hope you're not going to disappoint me. 
DOCTOR: I sincerely hope not. Have you thought of tunnelling? 
ODYSSEUS: It's been done. What we want is something revolutionary. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes. Dear me, sear me. Well, tell me, have you thought about flying machines? 
ODYSSEUS: No, I can't say I have.

[Plain outside Troy]

(Outside Troy, Paris is seeking Achilles.) 
PARIS: Achilles! (quietly) Achilles! Come out and fight, you jackal! Paris, prince of Troy, brother of Hector, seeks revenge. Do you not dare to face me? 
STEVEN: I dare to face you, Paris. Turn and draw your sword. 
PARIS: Ah. No, you're not Achilles. Are you? 
STEVEN: I am Diomede, friend of Odysseus. 
PARIS: Oh, Diomede, I do not want your blood. It's Achilles I seek. 
STEVEN: And must my Lord Achilles be roused to undertake your death, adulterer? 
PARIS: Yes, well, I'm prepared to overlook that for the moment. I assure you I have no quarrel with you. 
STEVEN: I'm Greek, you're Trojan. Is not that quarrel enough? 
PARIS: Yes, well personally, I think this whole business has been carried just a little bit too far. I mean, that Helen thing was just a misunderstanding. 
STEVEN: Which I now propose to resolve. Draw your sword. 
PARIS: Oh, right. Well, you'll be sorry for this, I promise you. 
(Steven and Paris fight with surprising skill, circling round each other and trading blows. Steven keeps his guard up, then pretends to trip and falls to one knee.) 
PARIS: Now, die, Greek, and tell them in Hades that Paris sent you thither! 
STEVEN: I yield. 
PARIS: I beg your pardon? 
STEVEN: I yield. I'm your prisoner. 
PARIS: Well, I say, this sort of thing is just not done. I mean, surely you'd rather die than be taken prisoner? 
STEVEN: Well, yes, but, only in a general sort of way, you see. You see, when I first challenged you, little did I know that you were indeed the Lion of Troy. 
PARIS: Yes, I 
STEVEN: I should have listened to my friends. 
PARIS: Why? What do they say? 
STEVEN: Why, that they would rather face Prince Hector and Troilus together than the mighty Paris. That you are unconquerable. 
PARIS: Really? They don't say that in Troy. 
STEVEN: Oh, I could tell them a tale or two of your valour that that would make even King Priam blanch to hear. 
PARIS: I say, could you really? 
STEVEN: Yes, and will. Why, I hope my Lord Achilles does not meet you. Even now he searches the plain for you, and what indeed would happen to our cause if he were vanquished? 
PARIS: Well, I don't really see how I can oblige him if I have a prisoner. I mean, there will come a day of reckoning, of course, but, well, for the moment, pick up your sword! Now, I suppose I shall have to drive you like a Grecian cur into the city, won't I? Excuse me a moment. Farewell, Achilles! For today, Paris of Troy has other business! Come, dog! (Paris retrieves his sword and they depart for Troy) Oh, yes.

[Priam's palace]

(Vicki, meanwhile, is dining with King Priam.) 
VICKI: Oh, thank you, that was delicious. 
PRIAM: You're sure you wouldn't like a little more breast of peacock? 
VICKI: No, thank you. I couldn't eat another mouthful. How on earth do you manage to live like this when you're under siege? 
PRIAM: My nephew Aeneas brings us a little something from time to time. He's in command of our mobile force. Spends most of his time harrying the Greek supply routes with his cavalry. 
VICKI: I didn't know cavalry was invented yet? 
PRIAM: Oh, bless my soul, yes. We are basically horsemen. Our ancestors came from central Asia, found this strategic position and chose to fortify it. We only need now to beat the Greeks a few score more horses. 
VICKI: You seem very fond of horses. 
PRIAM: Fond of them? I should think we are. We worship them. A Trojan would do anything for a horse. 
VICKI: Funny you should say that. 
PRIAM: Funny, why? What do you mean? 
VICKI: Well, it's nothing. It's just a story I heard a long time ago. 
PRIAM: A story about this war? 
VICKI: Well, yes. But it's nothing. I'm sure it's just a legend. 
PRIAM: What sort of a legend? Cressida, I'm relying on you to tell us everything you remember. The smallest thing may be of importance. 
VICKI: Yes. Prince Troilus, who was here just now. Is he your youngest son? 
PRIAM: Troilus? Oh yes. He's about the same age as you, I suppose. But why do you ask? I though we were supposed to be talking about 
VICKI: He's very good-looking, isn't he? 
PRIAM: Is he? Oh, I never noticed myself. I don't particularly notice good looks. Only gets you into trouble. Look at Paris. Handsome as the devil, but a complete coward. 
VICKI: I thought he was rather nice. 
PRIAM: Yes, women generally do. That's what got us into all this trouble. Oh, of course, you've not met Helen yet, have you? 
VICKI: No, I'm looking forward to that. 
PRIAM: Yes, well, she's. Oh, never mind. If only he'd met a nice, sensible girl like you. I always say it's character that counts, not good looks. 
VICKI: Thank you, kindly. 
PRIAM: Oh, no. I didn't mean. Good heavens, no. I wish you wouldn't keep changing the subject, Cressida. Funny you should say that about Troilus. I thought he was rather taken with you. 
VICKI: Did you really think so? 
PRIAM: Of course I did. I thought we were supposed to be talking about the war. Now don't keep changing the subject. You were saying something about a legend. 
VICKI: Was I? Yes. Well, you see 
PARIS: Father! I've captured a Greek! 
PRIAM: Paris, when will you learn to stop bursting in here when I'm busy? 
PARIS: Oh. Well, I just thought you might want to question him, that's all. 
PRIAM: Well I may do so in due course, but 
PARIS: Oh good, he's just outside. 
PRIAM: Oh, you've not brought him here, into the palace? 
PARIS: Oh, don't worry. He's thoroughly calm. 
PRIAM: That's not the point. 
PARIS: Yes, well, now he is here, couldn't I just bring him in? 
PRIAM: Oh, I suppose so. 
PARIS: Good. 
PRIAM: I'm sorry, Cressida. This is utterly unforgiveable. 
PARIS: Here, Diomede! Come on, step lively now! 
VICKI: Steven! What on earth are you? 
STEVEN: Shh, Vicki. 
PRIAM: What was that he called her? 
CASSANDRA: You heard, didn't you? That was the name she called herself when we found her. And she recognised him too. Since he's a Greek, what more proof do you need that she's a spy? Guards! Kill her. Kill both of them! 
(Vicki runs to Steven's arms as the guards draw their swords and advance.)

Episode Three - Death of a Spy

[Priam's palace]

VICKI: No! No! 
PARIS: Guards, sheath arms! And since when have you given orders to the military? I'm in command here! 
CASSANDRA: Of everything except your senses. 
PARIS: I am at present officer commanding all Trojan forces/ 
CASSANDRA: Ha! 
PARIS: And I will not tolerate interference from a fortune-teller of notorious unreliability. 
CASSANDRA: How dare you! I am High Priestess of Troy! 
PARIS: All right then, get back to your temple before you give us all galloping religious mania. Oh, really, father. I can't tolerate another of her tedious tirades at the moment. 
CASSANDRA: Father, do you hear him? 
PRIAM: Yes, it's quite refreshing. It seems there's a man lurking behind that flaccid facade after all. 
PARIS: Really, father, I do wish you'd refrain from patronising me in front of the prisoner. 
PRIAM: The prisoner. Oh, that's it. One pathetic prisoner and he thinks he's Hercules. Your success has gone to your head. 
PARIS: Just before you start sneering at this prisoner, perhaps you should know that his name is Diomede. And if you look in the Greek army lists, you'll see he's quite a catch. 
STEVEN: Which none but you could have caught, oh Lion of Troy. 
CASSANDRA: What was that? 
PARIS: Well, there you are, you see. Right. Go on, go on. Tell them, Diomede. 
STEVEN: We fought. I lost. I am not ashamed. There is none in all our ranks who could stand against the wrath of Paris when he seeks revenge. 
PARIS: Yes, very good. Very good, yes. There you are, you see? I'm treated with more respect by the enemy than I am by my own family. 
CASSANDRA: They don't know you as well as we do. 
PARIS: Perhaps better! And perhaps the time has come for you to start revising your opinions, sister. 
CASSANDRA: You forget one thing. Your prisoner and that girl have clearly met before. 
VICKI: Why won't you let me explain that. It's really all quite simple. 
PRIAM: Yes, I'm sure it is. But Paris claimed Diomede here as a Greek prisoner. And Cassandra claims that you are a Greek spy. 
CASSANDRA: And a sorceress. 
PRIAM: Yes, quite. After all, you do claim to know the future. 
VICKI: Yes, but don't you see, that's 
PRIAM: Hush, my child. This war with the Greeks has been going on for ten long years, and frankly we're very bored with being penned up here. Now if you are what you really say you are, as a pledge of good faith to us, you must either give me information that will lead to our speedy victory, or use your supernatural powers to turn the tide of battle in our favour. 
VICKI: But suppose I don't? Suppose the Greeks win? 
CASSANDRA: You will be burnt as a sorceress, a false prophet, and a spy. 
PRIAM: Well, as one of them, anyway. But I have every confidence in you, Cressida. And I will give you one whole day to decide which to do. 
STEVEN: One day? 
PRIAM: Yes. 
STEVEN: But 
PRIAM: Till tomorrow evening, to be precise. Now if you have no objection, I think they ought to be taken away. 
PARIS: Oh, yes, yes, I think that's all very fair. 
VICKI: Where are they taking us? 
PRIAM: To the dungeons. Oh, don't worry, you'll find them quite comfortable. I often spend an hour or two down there myself when I've got tired of things up here. 
STEVEN: How long do you intend to keep us there? 
CASSANDRA: Till you rot. 
PRIAM: Oh, well really, Cassandra. Though that may be true in your case, Diomede, but I trust Cressida will join us before tomorrow evening. 
PARIS: Oh, yes, yes, right. Guards, take them away.

[Greek tent]

(The Doctor is hard at work at a make-shift desk in the Greek camp when Odysseus comes looking for him.) 
ODYSSEUS: Well, Doctor, you have one day left. What progress are you making? 
DOCTOR: Considerable. Here. Now, you just take that for a moment. Now, pay attention please. 
(With the air of a magician, the Doctor folds a piece of parchment into a paper aeroplane) 
ODYSSEUS: What is it? 
DOCTOR: Well, what does it look like? A flying machine. 
ODYSSEUS: Looks like a parchment dart to me. My boy makes these to annoy his tutors. 
DOCTOR: Excellent! Since you're so familiar with this project, then it's so much easier for me to talk to you. Come along. Come along. 
ODYSSEUS: Huh! 
DOCTOR: Now, of course you realise that we can build a much larger one, capable of carrying a man. 
ODYSSEUS: I suppose so. What good would that be? 
DOCTOR: Oh, think, my dear Odysseus. A whole fleet of them carrying a company of soldiers over the walls and into Troy. 
ODYSSEUS: How would we get them into the air? 
DOCTOR: Catapults! 
ODYSSEUS: Catapults? That sounds like a vulgar oath to me! I must try it on Agamemnon. Catapults! 
DOCTOR: Nonsense! The catapult is, well, you could make one for yourself out of strips of ox hide, and secure both ends, and then stretch it out like a bow-string. 
ODYSSEUS: I see. 
DOCTOR: Then you pour water over it, let it dry in the sun, and what happens then? 
ODYSSEUS: It begins to smell. 
DOCTOR: Never mind that. It shrinks. Now, allow me to demonstrate. You place the flying machine thus, as you would an arrow in a bow, and let it go. 
ODYSSEUS: What happens? 
DOCTOR: The machine flies in the air with a soldier clinging to its back. 
ODYSSEUS: Yes, well, here's one soldier who's doing nothing of the sort. 
DOCTOR: Agamemnon, then. 
ODYSSEUS: That might be quite an idea. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. I thought you'd like it. 
ODYSSEUS: Agamemnon wouldn't do it, though. 
DOCTOR: Oh? Why not? 
ODYSSEUS: He'd object most strongly. We'll have to think of someone else. 
DOCTOR: Well, anyone could do it, for that matter. I mean, even a child could operate it. 
ODYSSEUS: I'm very glad to hear you say that, Doctor, because I intend to build this flying machine. 
DOCTOR: Excellent, excellent! 
ODYSSEUS: And you shall have the honour of being the first man to fly!

[Trojan dungeon]

VICKI: If you hadn't called me Vicki, we wouldn't be here now. 
STEVEN: Look, you called me by my name first. 
VICKI: Only because I was surprised to see you. I can't think why you disguised yourself as a Greek, anyway. 
STEVEN: I disguised myself so that I could rescue you. 
VICKI: You succeeded beautifully. Thanks, Diomede. 
STEVEN: Oh, look, be fair. How was I to know that you'd manage to get round King Priam? 
VICKI: You might have guessed. I know how to take care of myself. Why couldn't you have disguised yourself as a Trojan? It would have been far more sensible. 
STEVEN: Because I haven't got a Trojan uniform. If you're so clever at looking after yourself, you'd better start thinking of a way to get out of here, and fast. 
VICK: What do you mean, fast? 
STEVEN: Yesterday, the Doctor was given two days to capture Troy, and if I know him, he'll probably succeed. 
VICKI: Well, that's all right then. We shall be rescued. 
STEVEN: Rescued? You'll be lucky! Look, may I point out that in the one day that the Doctor now has left, you have to think of a way of saving the city and defeating the Greeks. 
VICKI: Oh. I hadn't thought of it like that. 
STEVEN: Well, you'd better start, because I don't think Cassandra's going to wait until the city falls before she gets rid of you. 
VICKI: Paris wouldn't let her do that, neither would Troilus. 
STEVEN: Troilus? 
VICKI: Paris's younger brother. He likes me. I like him. 
STEVEN: I don't think that's going to matter much when the city starts to burn. Now, come on, start thinking. It's you against the Doctor now. 
VICKI: Oh Steven, what can we do to stop him? Do you know what he was planning? 
STEVEN: Oh, I've no idea. I suggested the wooden horse. He said that was something Homer made up. 
VICKI: What was that? 
STEVEN: Some fool throwing stones at us. Probably stirred up by Cassandra. 
VICKI: Except for her, they were all quite friendly to me. 
STEVEN: Vicki! It's the Cyclops! 
VICKI: What? 
STEVEN: The servant of Odysseus. Look, Cyclops, can you understand me? Tell them. Tell them that I've found our other friend. Yes? That they mustn't attack Troy. That's it, the city. They mustn't attack Troy until the day after tomorrow. Otherwise, we'll both be killed, this girl and I. You understand? 
VICKI: Glad he thinks that's funny. 
STEVEN: Look. Tell, tell the old man. 
TROILUS [OC]: Cressida, what's going on? 
VICKI: Oh, Troilus! 
TROILUS: What were you doing? 
VICKI: Ah, nothing. Just watching Diomede examining those things in there. 
TROILUS: What are you doing up there? 
STEVEN: Just admiring the view. It's a very handsome square out here. 
TROILUS: Perhaps, but you're supposed to sit in your cell and be quiet. You weren't talking to him, were you? You're not supposed to. 
VICKI: Oh, no. I was just watching. 
TROILUS: I brought you some food. 
VICKI: Oh, thank you. I though I'd been forgotten. You can tell me what's going on while I eat. 
TROILUS: I'm not allowed to talk to you. 
VICKI: Why not? 
TROILUS: I'm on duty. 
VICKI: Well, can't you even 
TROILUS: I'm sorry, Cressida, but I must obey orders. 
(Vicki sits down sullenly and begins eating.) 
VICKI: Mmm. This is very good. Would you like some? Go on. Try some. 
TROILUS: Well, actually, I have already eaten.

[Greek tent]

(Back in his tent, Odysseus watches as the Doctor paces back and forth.) 
ODYSSEUS: Will you keep still? 
DOCTOR: I'm thinking. 
ODYSSEUS: Well, think sitting down. Now you said your plans were ready. I've got half a company of men standing by to make this machine of yours. 
DOCTOR: Dismiss them then. 
ODYSSEUS: What? You have very little time left, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm quite well aware of that, but I'm afraid this machine isn't going to work. 
ODYSSEUS: You mean you're too frightened to fly it yourself. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. It isn't that. Not at all. I've made a mistake in my calculations. 
ODYSSEUS: A mistake? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. I'm afraid we must face up to it, Odysseus, man was never meant to fly. 
ODYSSEUS: Wasn't he now? Well, that seems to me a great shame. Now if your machine won't work, Doctor, I propose to fly you without it. 
DOCTOR: Oh? What do you mean? 
ODYSSEUS: Simply this. That my catapult is ready and it seems a great pity to waste it. Now you have failed me, therefore you are expendable. I propose to fire you over the walls of Troy. 
DOCTOR: Ah, but I have another idea. And a much better one. 
ODYSSEUS: It had better be. Well? 
DOCTOR: Have you ever thought of a horse? 
ODYSSEUS: Is that supposed to be funny? 
DOCTOR: It should be a huge horse, about forty feet high. 
ODYSSEUS: What good would that be? 
DOCTOR: We build it hollow, and we fill it with soldiers and leave it on the sandy plain for the Trojans to capture it. 
ODYSSEUS: And it's just possible that the Trojans will come out and take the horse back into the city. 
DOCTOR: And the Greeks pretend to sail away. 
ODYSSEUS: Yes. Yes, that's quite an idea, Doctor.

[Trojan dungeon]

TROILUS: No, of course not. I It was just that Cassandra went on so about your being a witch! 
VICKI: And you thought I might put a spell on you? 
TROILUS: Well, no. Of course not. I'd like to see you try it. You're not a witch, are you? 
VICKI: Of course not. Do I look like one? 
TROILUS: Well, no, but then, I've never met one. Look here, I shouldn't be talking to you like this. And what are you laughing at? 
VICKI: Well, you're not in the war, are you? You're far too young. 
TROILUS: I'm seventeen next birthday! 
VICKI: That's hardly any older than me. You shouldn't be killing people at your age. 
TROILUS: Well, between you and me, I don't honestly enjoy killing at all. But I love adventure. 
VICKI: Yes. I know what you mean.

[Agamemnon's tent]

(Odysseus and the Doctor visit Agamemnon with their plan to seize Troy.) 
AGAMEMNON: Well? What is this idea of yours? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's all perfectly simple. 
ODYSSEUS: Nonsense! Show them the plans, Doctor. It's quite revolutionary. There, what do you make of that? 
MENELAUS: Eh. Well, it's a horse. Isn't it? 
ODYSSEUS: Well done, Menelaus. But what sort of horse, that's the point. 
MENELAUS: Ah. Er. Well, a big horse. 
ODYSSEUS: Exactly. A very big horse. 
AGAMEMNON: Is this some sort of joke? 
ODYSSEUS: A horse at least forty feet high. 
MENELAUS: Oh, but horses don't grow as big as that. Do they? I mean, even the Great Horse of Asia that the Trojans worship. 
ODYSSEUS: Now you're beginning to get to the point. Horses don't grow that high. 
MENELAUS: No. 
ODYSSEUS: The Great Horse of Asia does not exist, therefore we are going to build one for the Trojans as a sort of present. 
AGAMEMNON: Go on. 
DOCTOR: We build it of wood, and we build it hollow. Then we fill it with a picked team of soldiers. 
MENELAUS: Well, then what do we do? 
DOCTOR: You take to the ships and sail away, to make the Trojans think you've all gone. 
MENELAUS: Excellent. Now that is a good idea. 
DOCTOR: You all come back again, of course. 
MENELAUS: Why is there always a catch in it? 
DOCTOR: None of this must happen before nightfall. 
ODYSSEUS: Now Achilles will take his Myrmidons and hide out upon the plain. 
AGAMEMNON: I thought you said the best warriors'd be in the horse? 
ODYSSEUS: So they will be. I shall be there with my Ithacans. 
AGAMEMNON: Eh? 
ODYSSEUS: My Ithacans, and the Doctor, of course. 
DOCTOR: That wasn't part of the plan. 
ODYSSEUS: It is now. I've just thought of it. I'm standing no more nonsense from you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: That will not be necessary. I shall only get in the way. 
ODYSSEUS: You'd better not do that. Now the rest is up to those Trojans. They see that we have gone, they see their Great Horse upon the plain, which has descended from heaven to drive us away. 
DOCTOR: Then they drag the horse into the city. 
AGAMEMNON: Are you sure? Suppose they set fire to it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, well, that is a calculated risk. But somehow I don't believe they'll want to destroy one of their own gods. 
MENELAUS: Yes, but once they have the horse inside, won't they close the gates? 
ODYSSEUS: Of course they will. But during the night, we shall leave the horse, open up the gates to let you all in again. What more do you want? 
MENELAUS: A drink.

[Trojan dungeon]

VICKI: There, I've finished. That was lovely. 
TROILUS: Then I'd better go. I've stayed here far too long as it is already. 
VICKI: Oh. But aren't you going to take some food to Diomede? 
TROILUS: Why? 
VICKI: Well, perhaps he's hungry too. 
TROILUS: But he's a Greek. He deserves to be hungry. 
VICKI: Well, perhaps so, but you can't let him starve. 
TROILUS: He won't starve. The guards will throw him a scrap or two later on. 
VICKI: Well, that's a very nice attitude, I must say. 
TROILUS: Look here, is this Diomede a particular friend of yours or something? 
VICKI: A very good friend, yes. 
TROILUS: Well I don't see how you can be friends with a Greek. 
VICKI: Oh, look, Troilus. When you come from the future you make friends with a lot of people, and he's one of them. 
TROILUS: I see. But he's not in any way special? 
VICKI: No. Why do you keep on? 
TROILUS: Well, because that's what I was. I mean, that's what the others were worried about. 
VICKI: Oh, yes, well, all right, you can tell them to stop worrying and let us out. 
TROILUS: Yes, yes I will. But I don't suppose anyone will take any notice. 
VICKI: Well, do your best anyway. 
TROILUS: Naturally. I'll let you know what happens. Perhaps I can come back later on. If there's any news, that is. 
VICKI: Well, you know where to find me, don't you? I mean I don't expect I shall be going out or anything. 
TROILUS: I suppose not. Well, goodbye for the present then, Cressida. 
VICKI: Goodbye, Troilus. 
STEVEN: You ought to be ashamed of yourself. 
VICKI: I don't see why. At least I've done something towards getting us out of here, which is more than you have. 
STEVEN: And what chance have I had? 
VICKI: Anyway, I though he was rather nice. 
STEVEN: Oh, you made that painfully obvious. And I think you might at least have had the decency to have saved me some food. 
(Vicki takes some food from her pocket and hands it over.) 
STEVEN: Oh, thanks. 
VICKI: The guards are sending you some scraps later. Troilus said so. 
STEVEN: Hmm. Troilus. 
VICKI: You know, Steven, I think I could get to be quite happy here in time. 
STEVEN: I hate to remind you, but time is the one thing we just haven't got. 
VICKI: But you said you'd sent a message to the Doctor. 
STEVEN: Yeah, well, I think I have. It's hard to tell with the Cyclops. In any case, your new boyfriend came in before I'd finished telling him everything. 
VICKI: Well, let's hope he did understand. 
STEVEN: Yeah, and let's hope he got out of Troy safely. Otherwise we're in trouble.

[Outside Troy]

(Outside the city, Paris and his soldiers see Cyclops trying to leave.) 
GUARD: Halt! Halt or I shoot! 
PARIS: Identify yourself. Speak! 
(Cyclops cannot answer) 
PARIS: Who are you? 
(One of the soldiers throws his spear and Cyclops falls to the ground.) 
PARIS: Oh, confound you. Why did you have to do that? The poor little fellow probably never meant any harm. Well, now we shall never know who he was.

[Plain outside Troy]

ODYSSEUS: Well, Doctor, that's a warhorse and a half for you. That's something like a secret weapon. Better than half a dozen of your crack-brained flying machines. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I only wish I shared your confidence. 
ODYSSEUS: Oh, what's the matter with you? Have you no faith in your own invention? 
DOCTOR: No, no, Odysseus. It isn't that. But, I just didn't like the look of those fetlocks. They've no safety margin at all. 
ODYSSEUS: Well, they haven't got to last forever. After all, we're not building one of the wonders of the world, are we? As long as that horse gets us into Troy it can collapse into a mare's nest for all I care. 
DOCTOR: Ah, suppose it collapses whilst we're all in it? 
ODYSSEUS: Then we shall all look very foolish indeed. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I've no wish to be made a laughing stock. 
ODYSSEUS: Not another word, Doctor. To coin a phrase, you are coming for a ride.

[Trojan dungeon]

(In the cells, a guard brings a plate of scraps for Steven. As the guard turns to leave, Steven jumps him and knocks him to the ground. At the door, Steven finds himself facing four spears. Helplessly he watches as the fallen man gets up and leaves the cells, slamming the door behind him.) 
VICKI: I told you strong-arm tactics wouldn't work.

[Inside the Wooden Horse]

(The Wooden Horse is now on the plain, with the Doctor, Odysseus and a number of Ithacan soldiers inside. The Doctor sits by the open hatch, peering out into the darkness.) 
DOCTOR: Odysseus. Come here, quickly. 
ODYSSEUS: What is it now, Doctor? Upon my soul, you're making me as nervous as a Bacchante at her first orgy. Why don't you try and get some sleep? 
DOCTOR: I've never felt less like sleep in my life. I thought I saw some movement down there. 
ODYSSEUS: I hope you did. That's the whole point of the operation, is it not? Pretty lot of fools we'd look if we come here and nobody takes a damned bit of notice of us. 
DOCTOR: I think I ought to warn you that I've given second thoughts to the whole of this scheme, and I think it better we turn round and go back before it's too late. Get out of my way. 
ODYSSEUS: Now look, Doctor, will you be still? I suggest, Doctor, that if you cannot sleep, you start counting Trojans. Here they come now.

[Plain outside Troy]

(Across the plain, a column of Trojan soldiers carrying torches advances towards the Wooden Horse.

[Trojan dungeon]

(The following morning, Troilus rushes to wake Vicki in the cells.) 
TROILUS: Cressida! Cressida, wake up. You must come quickly. 
VICKI: What's the matter? 
TROILUS: The Greeks have gone. 
VICKI: What do you mean? 
TROILUS: Well, the whole fleet has sailed, and now there's not one to be seen. They've all gone home. The war's over! 
VICKI: Are you sure they've all really gone? 
TROILUS: Well, Paris has gone out now to make sure, but what else can it mean? Well, come and see for yourself. 
VICKI: Are you releasing me? 
TROILUS: Well, naturally. Father's terribly pleased with you. 
VICKI: Oh, it was nothing to do with me. 
TROILUS: Well, he thinks it was, and that's the main thing. He said that you've brought us luck as he always said you would. Cassandra's furious about it. She hates you more than ever now. 
VICKI: Oh dear. 
TROILUS: Oh, that doesn't matter. She's completely discredited. If even the end of the war can't cheer her up, she's not worth bothering about. Well, come on. Father wants to thank you himself. 
VICKI: Yes. Oh, what about Diomede? 
TROILUS: Who? 
VICKI: Diomede. 
TROILUS: Yes. What about Diomede? Do you think that you can fight the whole of Troy on your own? 
STEVEN: I don't want to fight anybody. 
TROILUS: Well, that's just as well. You're the last of the Greeks now. Your friends have all sailed home without you. Well, come on. 
(Troilus leads Vicki from the cells, leaving Steven alone.)

[Inside the Wooden Horse]

ODYSSEUS: Absolute silence, everyone. 
DOCTOR: Well, but I, I 
ODYSSEUS: That includes you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh. 
(The Horse jolts violently as the Trojans begin to haul it towards the city.) 
ODYSSEUS: Well, this time Troy will be destroyed.

[Priam's palace]

(Troilus escorts Vicki to see King Priam.) 
PRIAM: Come on in, Cressida. Come in, both of you. Has Troilus told you the news? 
VICKI: Yes, it's marvellous, isn't it? I'm so pleased. 
PRIAM: Pleased? I should just say you are. You did it. 
VICKI: I 
PRIAM: Oh, yes you did. I don't know how, but that's your own business, I suppose. Now, why on earth couldn't you tell us this was going to happen? You would have saved yourself all those hours in the cells, and us a great deal of worry. 
CASSANDRA: She didn't tell you because it's some form of treachery. Don't trust her, father. 
PRIAM: Oh, stuff and nonsense. Oh, go and feed the sacred serpents or something. If you can't be pleasant at a time like this, Cassandra, I don't want to see you. Oh, Paris! Have the Greeks really gone? 
PARIS: Every last one of them, or so it seems. 
PRIAM: There you are, Cassandra. I told you so. Oh, do for goodness sake, smile. 
PARIS: But, more important, I think I've just found the Great Horse of Asia. 
PRIAM: You've done what? 
PARIS: Something uncommonly like it, anyway. 
PRIAM: What on earth are you talking about? 
PARIS: The Great Horse of Asia. Standing all by itself in the middle of the plain, about forty foot high and made of wood. 
PRIAM: Whereabouts in the middle of the plain? 
PARIS: Near the Grecian line. Look. You can just see it from here. 
PRIAM: Great heavens, I do believe you're right. It is the Great Horse of Asia. 
CASSANDRA: It's an omen. An omen of disaster. 
VICKI: (sotto) It is the Trojan Horse. But I thought you 
TROILUS: What was that? 
CASSANDRA: Yes, ask her! Go on, ask her! She knows what it is. It's our doom! It's the death of Troy, brought upon us by that cursed witch! 
PARIS: Now understand me, Cassandra. I will not have one word said against that horse. 
TROILUS: And neither will I against Cressida. 
CASSANDRA: Will you not? Then woe to the House of Priam. Woe to the Trojans. 
PARIS: I'm afraid you're a bit late to say 'whoa' to the horse. I've just given instructions to have it brought into the city.

Episode Four - Horse of Destruction

[Priam's palace]

CASSANDRA: Of all the idiocy, to have it brought into the city. 
PARIS: Why? That horse is in the image of one of our gods. 
CASSANDRA: It's a trick. My dreams have always been right and they foretell disaster. 
PARIS: Now were they right about that little temple? That has brought us nothing but good luck. 
CASSANDRA: Good luck you call it. The whole family besotted by that sorceress. 
PRIAM: Oh, I do wish you'd stop calling Cressida that. And I would call it luck to have the entire Greek army removed from our shores. Peace at last. Though the arrival of the horse is a little puzzling. 
PARIS: Well, Cressida probably arranged it, and the very sight of it just, just frightened the Greeks away. 
TROILUS: Where is Cressida? 
PARIS: Oh, she's probably down in the square watching them bring in the horse. 
TROILUS: Oh, then I'd better go look for her. I don't like her to go wandering round the city on her own. 
PRIAM: No, bring her back up here again. She'll get a better view. 
CASSANDRA: Katarina, go and look for the sorceress. I don't trust my lovesick brother. 
KATARINA: But, great priestess, the auguries said that 
CASSANDRA: Do you dare to question me? 
KATARINA: No. 
CASSANDRA: Very well, then. Go and watch for that girl.

[Dungeons]

(Vicki has made her way to the cells to release Steven.) 
STEVEN: What's going on up there? 
VICKI: They're just bringing the horse into the city. Follow me.

[Inside the Wooden Horse]

DOCTOR: I'm still very worried about those fetlocks. 
ODYSSEUS: Be happy that's all you have to worry about. Of all the undignified ways of entering a city this takes the fried phoenix. 
DOCTOR: If only you would have allowed me another day to fit shock absorbers. Oh, I say! Oh! 
ODYSSEUS: Zeus be praised. We've arrived. 
DOCTOR: Oh! Well now, what is it you propose to do? 
ODYSSEUS: We wait, Doctor, without movement and in absolute silence.

[Palace Balcony]

PARIS: There, father, the horse is safely installed. And you may notice, my sister, that nothing disastrous, has occurred. 
CASSANDRA: Wait and see. There's time yet and mark my words that horse will be the doom of Troy. 
PRIAM: It's a little more rough hewn than I had expected. Well, since it's here we'd better take a closer look.

[Troy city square]

(In the square, Vicki and Steven are moving through the crowds towards the horse.) 
STEVEN: That's some horse. 
VICKI: If you can call it that. 
STEVEN: The Doctor said. 
VICKI: It'd be pretty silly if they caught you again. 
STEVEN: And you. 
VICKI: What do you mean? 
STEVEN: Well, if they find us together they'll know you let me out. 
VICKI: They think I invoked that thing. I'm all right. 
STEVEN: Yes, only so long as they think it's a gift from the gods. They'll know very differently once the Doctor and company come out of it. 
VICKI: Do you think he's in it? 
STEVEN: Well, it's likely isn't it? I mean, he'll be worried about getting back to the Tardis. 
VICKI: He must be able to see he's got nothing to worry about. That thing is so rickety it must be full of peep holes. 
STEVEN: All right, you do better in the time they had. Now I wonder why he didn't delay like we asked? 
VICKI: He must have a plan of escape to rescue us. Cyclops must have told him where we were. 
STEVEN: If Cyclops got through. 
VICKI: Look out. 
(Vicki has spotted Katarina moving through the crowds.) 
VICKI: That is one of Cassandra's girls. 
STEVEN: What? 
VICKI: That girl. I've seen her with Cassandra. She's a handmaid at the Temple or something. 
STEVEN: Then she must be looking for you. Look, you go back. I'll find somewhere to hide around here. 
VICKI: Look, they trust me, I'd 
STEVEN: You'd better go. In any case, Troilus'll die of jealousy if he knows you're with me. 
VICKI: And what is that supposed to mean? 
STEVEN: Oh, come off it, Vicki. The way you two were carrying on back there in the 
VICKI: Troilus has been very kind to me and I'm very fond of him and if all you can do is make fun 
STEVEN: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I am sorry. Okay, but look. If you really are that fond of him you'd better tell him to get out of the city. 
VICKI: Why? You mean when they come out of that thing they. Steven! 
STEVEN: It's possible, isn't it? Tell him to get out of Troy, just to be on the safe side. 
(Elsewhere in the square, Priam, Paris and Cassandra are making their way through the crowds towards the horse when Troilus runs up to them.) 
TROILUS: Diomede. He's gone. 
PARIS: He's gone? 
TROILUS: His cell is empty. The guards were locked in by a trick, so they say. 
CASSANDRA: That Cressida. Troy's doom is nigh! 
TROILUS: How could it be? She's one girl. 
CASSANDRA: A girl you call her, you love-sick fool, but I know she's a witch and must be burnt along with that horse out there. See. There she stands. 
PARIS: Now did you ever see someone so unlike a witch? 
PRIAM: Now, now quiet all of you. Come here, my child. Where have you been? We've been worried about you. 
VICKI: I've just been out. 
PRIAM: Yes, but where? 
TROILUS: Look, you didn't free Diomede, did you? 
VICKI: Diomede? 
PRIAM: Yes, your friend, the Greek prisoner. He has escaped. Did you set him free? 
PARIS: Oh, that's nonsense. I mean how could she have? 
CASSANDRA: By sorcery. 
VICKI: I am not a sorceress. Really, I'm not. 
PRIAM: Yes, I believe you, my child, but you must forgive us if we are naturally suspicious. This has been a long and difficult war, and peace will take a little bit of getting used to. 
CASSANDRA: My handmaiden Katarina will stay with her. 
PRIAM: Very well. Come, my children, our people have gone to the square of oratory, we must go and join them there and I must speak. And we must also make plans for the celebration. Thank you, my dear. See you later. 
VICKI: Thank you. Thank you for being so kind to me. 
PRIAM: My dear child, this city owes it's salvation to you. 
(Priam and the others leave Vicki alone with Katarina.) 
VICKI: Oh, no. Let it not happen. 
KATARINA: Did you want something? 
VICKI: No, thank you.

[Inside the Wooden Horse]

DOCTOR: How you can sit there so peacefully defeats me. Have you no feelings, no emotions? 
ODYSSEUS: I was thinking, Doctor, that with any luck either Agamemnon or Achilles will not come through. 
DOCTOR: You mean they'll desert us? 
ODYSSEUS: No, die. Just a hope. One less finger in the pie. A greater share of the booty for me. 
DOCTOR: That is a most immoral way of looking at life. 
ODYSSEUS: Nonsense. It's the reason that I've been here for ten long years fighting all the time. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well I must get out of here at once. 
ODYSSEUS: You can't. 
DOCTOR: I've only got to pull that lever and I can get back down into the square. 
ODYSSEUS: Yes, yes, but as I happen to be sitting on the rope you'll fall forty feet and break your neck. 
DOCTOR: I will not be party to your schemes. You forced me to invent this contraption. 
ODYSSEUS: I'm very glad I did, Doctor. Up to now it's been very satisfactory. 
DOCTOR: You had no right to bring me here at all. I'm utterly useless to you. You must let me out of here. You're selfish, greedy, corrupt, cheap, horrible. Your one thought is for yourself and what you can get out of it. 
ODYSSEUS: Be quiet, old man. 
DOCTOR: I will not be quiet. You may stay here if you wish to have your insignificant win, your victory or whatever you call it, but you must let me out of here. 
ODYSSEUS: One more word out of you and I shall kill you! You would be my first victim in Troy. 
(The Doctor moves away from the hatch) 
ODYSSEUS: That's better. About now our ships should be returning, as you planned.

[Priam's palace]

(Inside the palace, Troilus visits Vicki.) 
TROILUS: Cressida. 
VICKI: Oh, I'm so glad you've come. 
TROILUS: I had to see you. 
VICKI: Troilus, dear Troilus, will you do something for me? 
TROILUS: Anything. 
VICKI: Leave the city. 
TROILUS: Why? 
VICKI: It's Diomede. 
TROILUS: Diomede? 
VICKI: I'm sure he's out on the plain. You've got to go and look for him and find him. If you bring him back you'll prove yourself the warrior you really are. He'll be your prisoner then as well as Paris'. 
TROILUS: But he may have been rescued by the Greeks by now. 
VICKI: No, no, no. Paris said they'd all gone away and that was before he even escaped. 
TROILUS: Why this concern for Diomede? Is he? Do you? I mean, are you in love with him? 
VICKI: No, he's just a friend. 
TROILUS: Then if he's your friend, why do you want him captured? To be a prisoner of war's considered very bad form. 
VICKI: But. Oh, why won't you see? Go out and search for him on the plain. 
TROILUS: Cressida, I said I'd do anything for you, and a Trojan stands by his word, but please, why do you want me to leave the city and go and search for a highly skilled Greek warrior. 
VICKI: He isn't armed. I wouldn't send you out there if I thought anything could happen to you. I just want you to. I just want you to catch your own prisoner. 
TROILUS: Did you mean that? About not wanting me hurt? 
VICKI: Of course I did. I wouldn't ask you to do it otherwise. 
TROILUS: Oh, Cressida. 
VICKI: You haven't got time. You've got to go now. 
TROILUS: Don't worry. Everything's going to be all right.

[Troy city square]

(Night has fallen and the city of Troy is quiet. In the main square, a rope descends from the belly of the immense wooden horse. One by one, the Greek soldiers drop to the ground. Eventually the Doctor climbs awkwardly down the rope, followed by Odysseus.) 
ODYSSEUS: This plan of yours, Doctor, is going to be a great success. Stay close to me.

[Outside Troy]

(Outside the city walls, Troilus is searching for Steven.) 
TROILUS: Diomede! 
(A figure emerges from behind some nearby rocks) 
TROILUS: Diomede, where are you! 
ACHILLES: What ails you, petty princeling? Lost some plaything? The one you call for is long dead. 
TROILUS: You're a Greek. I thought you'd sailed away. Who are you? 
ACHILLES: You should not ask. My name is Achilles. 
TROILUS: My brother's murderer. 
ACHILLES: So, Prince Troilus, is it? Well, I killed your brother fairly. Fought him man to man. Alas, I cannot do the same for you. This will be the murder of a boy. 
TROILUS: Has Cressida played me false? Very well. I'll fight my brother's murderer for I only live to kill Diomede. 
ACHILLES: Who is already dead. So follow him, Trojan! 
(Troilus and Achilles circle each other, battling furiously. The Greek is surprised by Troilus' skill with a sword. He's beginning to tire when he slips on the rocky ground and falls. Troilus is quick to move in for the kill.) 
TROILUS: So died my brother. The wheel has spun full circle. 
(But as Troilus strikes the death blow, Achilles brings up his own sword and stabs at Troilus. Troilus collapses from his wound.) 
TROILUS: Diomede, I lived to call down wrath for love of Cressida.

[Troy city square]

(Two Greek soldiers struggle to unbolt the main gates that seal the city of Troy. As the gates open, hoards of Greek troops surge through the ever-widening gap.)

[Priam's palace]

(In the palace, Priam listens to the carnage outside with growing alarm.) 
PRIAM: What noise was that? What are you doing? 
PARIS: It's the Greeks! They were inside the horse and our gates are open to the enemy. 
CASSANDRA: And none of you would listen to me! 
(Odysseus bursts into the room.) 
ODYSSEUS: Three hornets in their nest. Kill them! 
(The soldiers run after Priam and his children.

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor has made his way to the Tardis) 
VICKI: Doctor! Oh, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear child! Oh, how lovely to see you. Where have you been all this time? And where's Steven? 
VICKI: Doctor, he's over there, but I've got to talk to you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, now one thing at a time, child. Where's the young man? 
VICKI: Katarina. Katarina, this is the Doctor. Now, go and find the man you call Diomede. He's hiding amongst those pillars over there. 
KATARINA: You're from the other place? 
DOCTOR: But who is this child. Now pull yourself together. We've got to go. 
VICKI: Katarina, go and find Diomede. He will be there. Bring him to my temple, quickly. 
DOCTOR: We must all go and find him. Come along. 
VICKI: No, Doctor. Into the Tardis, quickly. 
DOCTOR: Listen, my dear child, the boy, the boy. 
VICKI: Open the door and listen to me, please. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, but just be patient will you. 
VICKI: Steven is safe. Katarina will bring him. Come on, I've got to talk to you.

[Troy city square]

KATARINA: Diomede, Cressida has sent me. 
STEVEN: Who are you? 
KATARINA: I've come to take you to your temple. Oh, come, quickly. 
STEVEN: I can't. 
KATARINA: Lean on me. 
(Katarina helps the weakened Steven back towards the Tardis.)

[Priam's palace]

(Inside the palace, Priam and Paris lie dead. Odysseus has Cassandra by the shoulders and shakes her violently.) 
ODYSSEUS: Stop struggling, woman. You are reserved for Agamemnon and he's welcome to you. 
CASSANDRA: Tricksters! You Greeks will never learn to fight honestly! 
ODYSSEUS: But we win! 
CASSANDRA: Not for long. The day will come when you will perish as you made us do. 
ODYSSEUS: Take her away. The high-born are reserved for Agamemnon. I can't wait to see him enjoy a talk with this one. 
CASSANDRA: Ten long years we fought you, Odysseus, and ten long years it'll be before you see your home again. 
ODYSSEUS: To Agamemnon with her. To his ship. A personal present from me. 
CASSANDRA: Take your hands off me! Take your hands off me!

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor helps Katarina get Steven to the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: You're sure it's just the shoulder? Right. Well, steady, steady. Hold tight. Hold on. Yes, careful. Just a minute. Careful, careful, Vicki. Oh, dear, dear. This business. There we are. Now, come on bring him in. Bring him in there. Gently and carefully. That's it. That's it. Put him on the couch. 
ODYSSEUS: Stand still, old man, or you die. I claim your machine as part of my share. 
DOCTOR: Share of what? 
ODYSSEUS: The spoils of war! 
DOCTOR: Now you stand back. I've gone far enough with you, my Lord Odysseus. You go adventuring on your own. Be off with you. 
ODYSSEUS: Seize it! Come on, move! Quickly! A cart! 
(The Tardis dematerialises) 
ODYSSEUS: Doctor! 
(Odysseus and his soldiers watch in awe as the Tardis dematerialises.) 
ODYSSEUS: Zeus! I wonder, were you really Zeus after all?

[Outside Troy]

TROILUS: Cressida, Cressida, could you have betrayed us? Cressida! 
(The distraught Troilus watches from the plain as the city burns.) 
VICKI: I came to find you. 
TROILUS: Cressida, what are you doing here? Where's Diomede? 
VICKI: He's gone with another friend that you never met. 
TROILUS: Back to Greece. 
VICKI: No, to where I came from. You see, he wasn't really a Greek. He. Oh, Troilus you're hurt! 
TROILUS: Just a bit. 
VICKI: Oh, let me look. 
TROILUS: No, I'll be all right. Look, Cressida, I don't understand. 
VICKI: I, I don't suppose you ever will. That doesn't matter so long as you trust me. 
TROILUS: Trust you? After all 
VICKI: I didn't betray you. That's why I stayed behind. I wanted you to know that I didn't. The main thing is I belong here now with you. If you'll have me. 
TROILUS: Cressida, look what's happened. 
VICKI: There's only us now. 
TROILUS: What do you mean? 
VICKI: I'll explain someday. I'm sorry. 
TROILUS: But, but there's nowhere to go. 
VICKI: We'll find somewhere. 
TROILUS: Oh, Cressida. Cressida, look! 
VICKI: Be careful. They may be Greeks. 
TROILUS: It's my cousin! 
VICKI: Cousin? 
TROILUS: Yes, Aeneas. Oh, if only he'd come sooner. 
VICKI: That's it. 
TROILUS: What? 
VICKI: He'll help us. 
TROILUS: But, there's, there's nothing left. 
VICKI: Yes, there is. There's us. We can start again. With your cousin's help we can, we can build another Troy.

[Tardis]

(Inside the Tardis, Steven's condition worsening. The Doctor mops his brow as Katarina stands by, watching helplessly.) 
DOCTOR: That's not good. That's not good at all. We must get help. 
KATARINA: What help is there in limbo? 
DOCTOR: What's that, my dear? 
STEVEN: Vicki 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no, no. Keep calm, keep calm. 
STEVEN: Is she all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. She's all right. Yes, yes. 
STEVEN: What's she doing over there? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. That's not Vicki. That's not Vicki. Now keep calm. 
STEVEN: Not Vicki? 
DOCTOR: Be quiet! 
STEVEN: Where is she? The Trojans will kill her. You came too soon. 
DOCTOR: She's all right. She's all right. She wanted to stay. 
STEVEN: The Greeks. The Greeks, the Trojans. 
DOCTOR: Keep still. 
STEVEN: Vicki. 
DOCTOR: She's all right. I know she is. She's gone to find Troilus and she'll be quite all right. This is just what she wanted. Now calm down. Yes, quiet, quiet. 
STEVEN: Oh, Vicki. Vicki. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you'll have to look after that young man. I think he has calmed down. 
KATARINA: Strange god, you bring me peace. 
DOCTOR: No, I don't know what Vicki has advised you, but 
KATARINA: Oh, the Priestess Cressida told me all would be well and I knew it was to come. 
DOCTOR: What was to come my dear? 
KATARINA: That I was to die. 
DOCTOR: My dear child, you're not dead. That's nonsense. 
KATARINA: This is not Troy. This is not even the world. This is the journey through the beyond. 
DOCTOR: Well, as you wish. 
KATARINA: Thank you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, as you wish, my child. Now, I want you to keep an eye on that young man. Will you? 
KATARINA: Yes, great god. 
DOCTOR: His name is Steven. And remember Katarina, you must call me Doctor. 
KATARINA: Oh, as you wish Doc. 
DOCTOR: I'm not a Doc. I am not a god. Oh, my dear Vicki, I hope you'll be all right. I shall miss you child. Oh, yes, now. Those drugs, those drugs. What am I going to do? I must stop somewhere. But, how? I've got to! Yes! I must! I must!

[Tardis]

(Escaping the carnage of Troy, the Doctor, Steven and Katarina are safe aboard the Tardis, Vicki having decided to stay behind. But Steven's battle injury's more serious than first appeared, and blood poisoning makes him feverish. Katarina, the serving maid from the palace of King Priam, stands by helplessly as the Doctor tries to make Steven more comfortable. Steven lies on a divan, semi-conscious. The Doctor is at the Tardis controls trying to work out where they may be heading whilst Katarina hovers, concerned.) 
KATARINA: He has a strange sickness. Can you not help him? 
DOCTOR: I'm doing the very best I can, my child. Oh dear, dear, dear. It is such a worry. This poison seems to be spreading throughout the whole of his system. Yes, we need a special drug. I shall have to land somewhere. 
KATARINA: What is that? 
DOCTOR: Oh, we're slowing down, my dear. We're going to land in a moment. 
KATARINA: Can we have reached the place of perfection so soon? 
DOCTOR: Ah, well, I rather doubt it. At least, that is, we shall be stopping at a lot of places before that. Now, I want you to look after Steven, if you will, and see that you keep that wound clean. Please? That's a good girl.

[Kembel - Jungle clearing]

(Bret Vyon is bent over a small transmitter as large animals roar. Everyone say Hi! to Nicholas Courtney) 
BRET: Five Zero Alpha to Charlo Charlo Egan, Five Zero Alpha to Charlo Charlo Egan, come in! Charlo Charlo Egan, this is Five Zero Alpha, can you read me? Come in! 
(Close by, Kurt Gantry lies on the ground, his leg in a crude splint. He exchanges a look of despair with Vyon.) 
BRET: Nothing! When we get back to Earth, I'll have every fool in CCE court-martialed! 
KURT: If we get back to earth. If Central Communications has gone dead on us, we haven't a hope! 
BRET: We're not dead yet. 
KURT: Don't fool yourself. They're out there looking for us right now. They'll find us, and then 
BRET: All right, all right, they may well find us, but we've got to get through to Earth first or the whole solar system is finished. 
KURT: I know. I know. Try them again. 
BRET: Five Zero Alpha to Charlo Charlo Egan, come in. Five Zero Alpha to Charlo Charlo Egan, come in!

[Earth - Central Communications]

(Millions of miles away, in the central communications control room on Earth, Vyon's call is registering on the operations board. Unfortunately, the small flashing light that signals the incoming communication remains overlooked. The large room is dominated by a map of the galaxy on one wall. Shaven-headed technics go about their tasks while the two duty officers, Roald and Lizan, return to their posts after a break.) 
ROALD: So it's checkmate, isn't it? I want to see the Venus-Mars games. You want to see your hero, Mavic Chen. 
LIZAN: (a woman) I just happen to admire him, that's all. Well, I'm going to do some work now, even if you aren't. 
(Lizan takes an observation chart and moves across to the console.) 
ROALD: I tell you what. If we tune into Channel 403, we'll get the news. That should cover both our requirements. Agreed? 
LIZAN: Ah, but we may only get a report of what Mavic Chen said, not actually see him. 
ROALD: That's hardly likely. The Guardian of the Solar System is going away on holiday. He will, no doubt, say a few well-chosen words. Every well-chosen word will no doubt be transmitted. 
LIZAN: And what about the routine calls? 
ROALD: Oh, you worry too much. The next one's Five Zero Alpha. 
LIZAN: Five Zero Alpha? 
ROALD: It's not for another twenty minutes. Well, what about 403? 
LIZAN: Bring up 403 please. Five Zero Alpha? Is that the patrol out looking for Marc Cory? 
ROALD: Yes, the agent who disappeared near the planet Kembel. Probably crashed, so they think. Hey, bring up the sound! It's Mavic Chen on holiday. 
CHEN [OC]: Yes. The mineral agreement with the fourth galaxy proved a little more complicated than was at first expected. 
INTERVIEWER [OC]: And as that has been concluded so successfully, I'm sure that no one will begrudge you little time off. Where are you going to on this trip? 
CHEN [OC]: That I am keeping a secret. I hope to be able to get away from all interviewers. I'm just going to climb aboard my Spar and drift about the solar system. 
LIZAN: Drifting round the solar system! That's the life if you can get it. 
ROALD: Well, become a galactic politician and who knows? Maybe one day you will. As far as I'm concerned, give me terra firma any day. 
LIZAN: You are in a rut, my friend. Now if I had the latest Flip T-4, I 
ROALD: It's a trifle brash, isn't it? There are other space vessels, you know. 
LIZAN: You mean the Spar 740? 
ROALD: Yes. If I had to travel around ultra-space, I'd think the 740. Elegance, plus ultimate technology. 
LIZAN: It hasn't got the speed. 
ROALD: Speed isn't everything. 
INTERVIEWER [OC]: Is there anything you would like to say to the citizens before you depart? 
CHEN [OC]: Yes. It is my earnest hope that the solar system may continue along this path of peace, this path that was laid by the signing of the non-aggression pact of 3975. Now, in this year of 4000, we can feel justly proud of that pact. May the past twenty five years prove that they are the dawn of an everlasting peace which will spread throughout the universe. Let us go forward together, secure in the knowledge that the life ahead is built on the cornerstone of richer understanding, not only of the past or of the present, but also of the future. And may it be this cornerstone, so firmly laid, be built upon in brotherhood and bring peace, progress and prosperity to each and every one of us. 
INTERVIEWER [OC]: Thank you sir. I'm sure that all throughout our system echo your thoughts. 
LIZAN: Even you must agree he's an impressive man. 
ROALD: Yes, it's nice to hear his speech again. 
LIZAN: Cynic. 
LIZAN: Was that a flash? 
ROALD: Where? There's nothing coming through. 
LIZAN: I thought I saw one. 
ROALD: You're imagining things. 
LIZAN: Okay, so I'm imagining things.

[Kembel - Jungle clearing]

(Vyon abandons the transmitter. Kurt is gazing nervously into the jungle.) 
KURT: They are out there, I know it. And they're getting closer. 
BRET: You're imagining things. Now shut up. 
KURT: Do you think I'm a fool? There's something out there and it's close. 
BRET: Look, I tell you 
KURT: Just listen. There. 
BRET: Shh! 
KURT: You heard it? 
BRET: Yes. Come on, we've got to get out of here. 
KURT: I stay. 
BRET: What? But you know we can't fight them. Our weapons are useless against those things. Now we must move out. 
KURT: How can I keep on the move with this? Have you got any more bright ideas? All that will happen is I'll hit one of those spiked plants. I nearly fell on one before. 
BRET: We won't go fast, just keep moving. I'll make sure we avoid the Varga plants. 
KURT: If I fall and hit one, you know what happens then. 
BRET: Don't be a fool! 
KURT: That could be what happened to Cory. He tripped, pricked himself on a thorn, and then he turned into one. 
BRET: You're letting your imagination run riot again. Besides, we haven't seen any Varga that look like him. 
KURT: Joke away, but you know I'm right. There's been no trace of Marc Cory anywhere. 
BRET: Perhaps they took him prisoner. 
KURT: You know they don't take prisoners. 
BRET: All the more reason for you to come with me. Now come on. 
(Bret moves to help Kurt to his feet, but Kurt pushes him away angrily.) 
KURT: This is no time for phony heroics. I'll just slow you down, and then we'll both get it. Now without me you've got a chance. It's not a good one, but it's a chance. Just stay alive and get that message through. 
BRET: I'm not going without you, is that clear? 
KURT: Get out! Get out of here or I'll kill you now! 
(Kurt presses his gun into Vyon's chest. Bret is shocked, but realises his friend is deadly serious and moves to pick up the transmitter before walking to the edge of the clearing.) 
KURT: Bret. Good luck. 
(Vyon nods briefly, then quickly turns and disappears into the jungle. Kurt moves awkwardly to a better defensive position, his gun levelled at the darkness of the forest.) 
KURT: All right, I'm ready for you now. 
(There's no response from the depths of the jungle. Kurt stares around wildly, becoming more and more unsettled.) 
KURT: Where the devil are you? Come on! 
(Behind him, there's a trembling of leaves, and a dark shape emerges from the jungle. A Dalek. As Kurt falls lifeless to the ground, the second Dalek glides out of the forest and scans the area.) 
DALEK 2: One man remains. Find and destroy him! 
DALEK 1: I obey! 
(The Daleks glide away. Dashing through the dark jungle, Bret Vyon dodges to avoid a couple of Varga plants but then trips and crashes to the ground, smashing his radio transmitter. Vyon picks up the useless piece of equipment and looks at it in despair. As he tries to work out what to do next, a strange noise disturbs him. At the edge of the clearing, Bret watches in amazement as the Tardis materialises. He approaches the blue box cautionsly, ducking back out of sight when the door opens. The Doctor emerges, followed by Katarina.) 
KATARINA: Strange place. Can you find help here? 
DOCTOR: I don't know my dear, but I must try. Now, I want you to stay here and look after Steven. I shall be as quick as I can. 
KATARINA: I'll do as you ask. 
DOCTOR: Splendid. Now you know which switch to pull to close the doors, don't you, so I want you to do that straight away. I have my key to let myself in. 
KATARINA: Key? 
DOCTOR: Yes. This, child. Key. This opens the door from the outside. Now go in please, and shut the door. Charming.

[Outside the Tardis]

(With Katarina safely back inside the Tardis, the Doctor sets off into the jungle. Once he's gone, Bret comes out of hiding and examines the Tardis doors. After a moment he turns and hurries after the Doctor.

[Kembel - Jungle]

(Before long, the Doctor catches sight of lights up ahead. Moving closer, he sees a cluster of buildings in a wide valley, surrounded by dense jungle. i
DOCTOR: Ah. A city or perhaps a town. I wonder where we are? All I have to do is get through that jungle and perhaps then I can get some help. I must say it's a strange place to put a city. 
(Bret steps into the Doctor's path, gun in hand.) 
BRET: Keep absolutely still. 
DOCTOR: What is it you want? 
BRET: The key. 
DOCTOR: What key? 
BRET: Give me that key or I'll kill you.

[Tardis]

(Steven has regained consciousness.) 
KATARINA: The Doctor will return very soon. He will get help. 
STEVEN: Where are we? 
KATARINA: On our way through the underworld. 
STEVEN: What? Look, I don't understand. Vicki. Troy. Oh. You helped me when that Trojan 
KATARINA: Deep calm. You must rest. 
STEVEN: Did the Doctor bring you on board? 
KATARINA: Yes. We all make the journey together. 
STEVEN: Who are you? 
KATARINA: Katarina. I served as handmaid to the High Priestess Cassandra. But you must rest. The Doctor will bring help. Don't ask any more questions. 
STEVEN: I, I want. 
(Steven passes out again as the doors open. Katarina turns in surprise to see Bret enter the Tardis.) 
KATARINA: Did the Doctor sent you? 
BRET: That's right. The old man sent me. 
KATARINA: Have you bought help? 
BRET: This is fantastic. You, what's your name? 
KATARINA: Katarina. Did the Doctor send you to cure the sickness? 
BRET: Yes, but we must shut the doors first. The old man said you knew the switch. 
KATARINA: Yes, here. 
(As Katarina closes the doors, Bret continues to gaze around the outsized Tardis interior in amazement.) 
BRET: What sort of craft is this? I've seen most, but nothing like this. From the outside it looked so small. How do you work this thing? 
KATARINA: Only the Doctor works his temple. 
BRET: His what? 
(Bret tries a few switches.) 
KATARINA: You must help Steven. 
BRET: Yes, yes, of course I'll help Steven, but we must get back to Earth first. I explained this to the old man, the, er, Doctor. 
(But the agent only succeeds in unknowingly activating the exterior scanner.) 
KATARINA: We can't go back to Earth, we've left it. 
BRET: That means we can get back? 
(Coming round once more, Steven struggles to understand what's happening. On the scanner, he can see the Doctor approaching outside.) 
BRET: Katarina, are you sure you don't know how to work this? 
KATARINA: How could I know? It belongs to the Doctor. 
BRET: The old man said this was no ordinary ship, and he was right.

[Outside the Tardis]

(Outraged but unharmed, the Doctor has returned to the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: So, you'd use physical violence, would you? You don't know what you've let yourself in for. So you've left the key in the door! Well, well, that's the first big mistake, isn't it? Yes, very foolish. Very foolish indeed, young man. Well now, it's brain, or brawn rather, versus brain? I've got you beaten from the start, young man!

[Tardis]

(Bret is still trying to make sense of the Tardis controls when Steven attacks him with a spanner.) 
KATARINA: Steven?

[Outside the Tardis]

(Outside, the Doctor is distracted by a roaring overhead.) 
DOCTOR: I wonder if that spaceship has anything to do with that violent young man, or any connection with that city below. Yes, there are one or two questions I must have answered.

[Reception hall]

(In the reception hall of the city, a Dalek reports to the Dalek Supreme.) 
DALEK 2: Control reports space vessel 1-11 in landing circuit. 
BLACK: Is all prepared? 
DALEK 2: Everything is ready. 
(The Black Dalek waits to greet the new arrival.)

[Tardis]

(When Bret comes round he has a splitting headache, and finds himself unable to move.) 
DOCTOR: (chuckles) I doubt that you'll be able to get out of there in a hurry, my friend. 
BRET: What is it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's a little invention of mine, I call it the magnetic chair. It has a forcefield strong enough to restrain a herd of elephants, so I wouldn't waste your energy trying to escape. You will stay there until I direct otherwise. 
(The Doctor crosses over to Katarina, who is tending to Steven.) 
DOCTOR: How is he, my dear? 
KATARINA: He's asleep. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Oh, by the way, I've found a city. And just as I was about to ascertain it's locale, that young ruffian set about me. 
KATARINA: Can you get help for Steven? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, I hope so. Just a minute. That young man, did he say anything? 
KATARINA: No. 
DOCTOR: That's strange. Yes, I shall have to cross-examine him when I get back. But don't worry, he's quite safe. Our guest is quite unable to move until I press that little switch at the back. So you're quite safe. Yes, he's quite harmless. Oh, and quite comfortable, I hope?

[Kembel - Jungle]

(Leaving the Tardis, the Doctor struggles through the thick jungle towards the city, oblivious to the dangers around him. Narrowly avoiding a Varga plant, he approaches the city walls and stumbles across a humanoid skeleton still covered in scraps of clothing. The Doctor examines the body quickly.) 
DOCTOR: Well, I wonder. Is this the solar system? 
(A spool of tape is lying discarded a few feet away.) 
DOCTOR: It's very strange. 
(Pocketing the tape, the Doctor continues on his way.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, strange indeed. Well.

[Reception hall]

(The spacecraft that the Doctor observed lands at the Dalek spaceport.) 
DALEK 2: Space vessel 1-11 touch down completed. 
BLACK: Excellent. I will await our guest here. 
(Concealing in the shadows by the landing area, the Doctor is horrified by what he sees.) 
DOCTOR: Daleks!

[Tardis]

(Steven's fever is getting worse. Katarina sits at his side pressing a cool cloth to his brow.) 
BRET: What's the matter with him? I said, what's the matter with him? 
KATARINA: He's sick. The Doctor says he's poisoned in the blood. 
BRET: There are some tablets in the pouch of my belt. Give him two. 
KATARINA: But you're an enemy. The Doctor's gone to get help. 
BRET: He won't find any on this planet, believe me, so why not try the tablets? I hate to see anyone die through stupidity. 
KATARINA: I do not understand you. 
BRET: For heaven's sake, girl, take the tablets and give them to him! 
KATARINA: All right. 
BRET: Now you're showing some sense. 
KATARINA: Here? 
BRET: Yes. It's all right. I won't harm you. This chair of the Doctor's seems to be everything he claimed. All right. The tablets are in that tube. 
KATARINA: Are these tablets? 
BRET: What do they look like? Take two and put them in his mouth. They dissolve quickly and take effect almost immediately. Praise be that you're not nursing me! It's all right. He'll be all right now. You can leave him alone. 
KATARINA: If you're wrong, the Doctor will be angry. I've disobeyed him. 
BRET: If Steven, or whatever his name is, recovers, you'll be forgiven. and if the Doctor gets back here soon. 
(Glancing up at the scanner, Bret sees a Dalek enter the clearing.)

[Reception hall]

(The Doctor continues to watch the Daleks in the reception area.) 
DALEK 2: Our new ally approaches! 
(The Dalek's visitor comes into sight. Tall, distinguished, stern yet almost benign looking with grey flecked beard and slightly oriental appearance, and eyebrows permanently arched quizzically, it is Mavic Chen, Guardian of the Solar System.) 
BLACK: We welcome you as we welcome all allies of the Daleks. 
CHEN: I am honoured to be here, and to be part of your plan to conquer Earth and all the planets in the solar system. 
(The Daleks lead Chen from the reception hall and into the city. With great urgency the Doctor edges away from the city walls. Half running, half stumbling, he retraces his steps through the jungle back to the Tardis.)

[Outside the Tardis]

(Reaching the edge of the clearing, the Doctor stops in his tracks. Something is wrong. The door of the Tardis is ajar, and as he watches, a Dalek appears from behind the ship, followed by two more.)

Episode 2 - Day of Armageddon
(from the 'Lost in Time' DVD)

[Outside the Tardis]

DALEK 1: Inform base security that a further intruder craft has been located. 
DALEK 2: I obey. 
DALEK 1: Security patrols five and seven will converge on this area. Priority alert. Invaders to be located and destroyed. 
(Deeply concerned for his companions, the Doctor edges back deeper into the cover of the jungle. In the clearing, the Daleks receive their new orders.) 
DALEK 1: A message from the Dalek Supreme. Operation Inferno to be put into execution at once. 
DALEK 2: Inform all units. Evacuate patrols to safety areas. Confirm with units in position. On confirmation, start abbreviated countdown for Operation Inferno.

[Conference room]

(Mavic Chen is seated in solitary splendour, writing left to right then right to left, at the head of the huge table. Having missed the preliminary sessions of the conference, he's spent the last hour studying transcripts of the meeting. As Chen reads, a humanoid creature wearing a full length black cloak and hood with slanting gashes for eye holes sweeps down the entrance ramp into the room, a sinister menacing figure. He approaches Chen who looks up, his concentration disturbed.) 
ZEPHON: Mavic Chen, Guardian of the Solar System? 
CHEN: Yes? 
ZEPHON: I am Zephon, Master of the Fifth Galaxy. 
CHEN: Of course. I had hoped to meet you once before, at the Intergalactic Conference of Andromeda. 
ZEPHON: I did not attend, and now you know the reason. The Daleks held a separate council at the same time. None of us of the outer galaxies went to yours. 
CHEN: Except Trantis. 
ZEPHON: We agreed to send a delegate in order that the conference should not become suspicious. 
CHEN: I've been reading the reports on the previous meetings here. The Daleks have evolved a most interesting plan. 
ZEPHON: We of the outer galaxies have contributed to it also. 
CHEN: Of course. But you must admit the Daleks have a genius for war. 
ZEPHON: That is so. However, one thing surprises me. That you, Guardian of the Solar System, have agreed to become one of us. 
CHEN: Why the surprise? As you say, I am Guardian of the Solar System. But that is nothing more than a part, however influential, of one galaxy. Would you be satisfied with just a part of a galaxy? 
ZEPHON: The solar system is exceptional. In its power lies influences far outside its own sphere. Surely by joining with the forces determined to destroy that power, you mark yourself up as a supreme traitor? 
CHEN: Traitor? (laughs) An archaic word for so advanced a man as yourself. Considering that the planet Fisar and the Embodiment Gris have both, at different times, tried to depose you, do you still maintain that you're the mouthpiece for your own galaxy? 
ZEPHON: I do, now that I am all-powerful with my position. 
CHEN: True. But then you do not understand the conflicting powers within our solar system. Now let us go and take some air. This is hardly the time or the place for so serious a discussion. 
ZEPHON: But first we must 
CHEN: Some air. 
(Unaware that their conversation has been monitored, Chen and Zephon leave.

[City]

(A Dalek reports their exchange to the Dalek Supreme) 
BLACK: Report. 
DALEK 1: Guardian of the Solar System Chen must be watched. His ambitions exceed his usefulness. 
BLACK: When he has served his purpose, he, like the others, will be eliminated. No power in this universe can stop the Daleks.

[Kembel - Jungle]

(When Steven awakes he is confused to find himself in the jungle.) 
STEVEN: Where's the Doctor? 
KATARINA: He will be here soon. 
STEVEN: I don't understand. Where are we? I can't think straight. 
KATARINA: You must rest. The tablets I gave you have made you better, but you must still rest. 
STEVEN: Tablets? What's going on here? What are we doing out here in the jungle? 
KATARINA: We had to leave the temple. The Tardis. The evil ones came. 
STEVEN: Evil ones? 
KATARINA: He called them the Daleks? 
STEVEN: Daleks! 
(Still weakened by his fevers, Steven drifts back into unconsciousness. Katarina watches over him with some concern when a small sound behind her makes her turn. The bushes part and the Doctor emerges.) 
DOCTOR: Katarina! 
KATARINA: My lord. 
DOCTOR: Doctor. Doctor. What are you both doing here? 
KATARINA: The evil ones searched for us but Bret helped us. He said they were evil. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, whoever this Bret is, he's quite right. The Daleks are evil things. 
KATARINA: Bret is the man you put in your magic chair. 
DOCTOR: What? That young ruffian? 
KATARINA: But he helped us. 
DOCTOR: And you released him? 
KATARINA: Was I not right to do so? When the evil ones came he said we had to flee from your temple. 
DOCTOR: Girl, my Tardis, child, my Tardis. Yes, you were right. I mean, he wasn't to know that you were quite safe away from the Daleks in there. How is this young man? 
STEVEN: I'll be all right in a minute or two, thanks, Doc. 
DOCTOR: Good, good, good. 
KATARINA: Bret says the time is four thousand, and he came here and only just got away from the evil ones. He gave Steven some white tablets, and he's almost well again. 
DOCTOR: I see, I see. Yes, and I clamped him in that chair, and he's the very fellow with the antitoxin. Well, young man, you'd better pull yourself together. We've got some work to do. 
(Hiding in the bushes, looking down into the clearing towards the Tardis, Bret watches as two more Daleks, both carrying flame-throwing equipment instead of sink-plungers, join the rest of the patrol.) 
DALEK 1: Operate pyro-flames! 
DALEKS 2 + 3: We obey! 
(The Daleks turn their flame-throwers on the surrounding jungle and instantly the trees are ignited, trailing fire down into the undergrowth. In seconds an inferno is raging, spreading and growing into a curtain of flame. Horrified, Bret scrambles to his feet and hurries back to the place he left Katarina and Steven. A little way off, the Doctor and his companions are as yet unaware of the danger they're in. Steven is struggling to get to his feet as Bret approaches.) 
DOCTOR: Aren't you feeling better? 
STEVEN: Look, Doctor, I think I can manage on my own. 
DOCTOR: Carefully, carefully. Now, just rest for a minute. Take a few deep breaths. Don't you try to run before you can walk, although you might have to. Oh, it's Bret, isn't it? Yes, thank you. Tell me what's happening? 
BRET: It's the Daleks, they're using flame guns. I think they're going to burn down the jungle. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious me. We must try to get back to the Tardis. We're in grave danger here. 
STEVEN: Doctor, don't you see? It's a trap. That's exactly what they want us to do. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, possibly, possibly. 
STEVEN: We can't act without thinking. 
DOCTOR: I never do and never shall. 
STEVEN: You were all set to go straight back to the Tardis. 
KATARINA: He said we should never have left it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're quite right, my dear. It's the safest place. 
STEVEN: Oh, yes. If the Daleks are waiting outside for us, it will be suicide. 
DOCTOR: Oh, not necessarily, not. 
STEVEN: Who's going to play the scapegoat? 
KATARINA: Supposing Steven were right? 
DOCTOR: Well, in this instance, child, he might be, but I know the Daleks. 
STEVEN: So do I, Doctor. Look, I say we should stay here until we know exactly what they're going to do. 
DOCTOR: They could track us down at any time. 
STEVEN: We'd hear them. I mean, the Mechanoids 
DOCTOR: Oh, they were robots. 
STEVEN: So what? 
DOCTOR: These are Daleks. Now you listen to me, young man, I am in charge of this situation. 
BRET: Sir! Will you shut up! At least that's stopped you arguing. 
DOCTOR: Well upon my soul. 
BRET: Now, look here, I don't care what happens to you, but I have got to warn Earth. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and you will have to do far more than that. If the Daleks are doing something drastic, then we have to stop the Daleks. Now will you shut up, sir? 
(The Daleks spread out, relentlessly blasting at the undergrowth. Unchecked, the fire spreads quickly, enveloping more and more of the forest. Jungle creatures begin to howl and screech in panic, and a think paul of black smoke rises. blotting out the stars. As the fire rages closer, the Doctor and Bret are still arguing about what to do next.) 
BRET: One, learn the Dalek plans. 
DOCTOR: We know, young man. 
BRET: And two, get the information back to Earth. 
DOCTOR: Now just listen, listen, listen. Think back for a moment. Just think back. If the Daleks were going to attack Earth, as you seem to fear, then you must tell Earth to look back in the history of the year 2157, and that the Daleks are going to attack again. History will show how to deal with them. 
BRET: Who cares about history? 
DOCTOR: Now listen 
STEVEN: I can smell smoke. Yes, look! 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, you're quite right, young man. They're going to trap us. 
KATARINA: Doctor, it's like the wall of fire. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, no. Not quite, not quite, my dear. We've got to get out of here. Come on. This way. 
BRET: What? That's the way to the Dalek city. 
DOCTOR: But of course. That's the last place they will expect us to go. Come along.

[Reception area]

(From the safety of the reception area in the Dalek city, Chen and Zephon observe the fire as it decimates the jungle.) 
CHEN: The magnificent power of the flame. Primitive but efficient. 
ZEPHON: You, too, would have used ultrasonics? 
CHEN: If I had nothing better. The meeting must start soon. 
ZEPHON: You appear so keen to be a model delegate one might think you are afraid of the Daleks. 
CHEN: A dangerous statement. Remember where you are. 
ZEPHON: Ha! The solar system is so far behind that it believes the Daleks need to eavesdrop? 
CHEN: Of course not. 
ZEPHON: The Daleks needed me. Without my help, they would never have got the co-operation of the masters of Celation and Beaus. We are on equal terms. 
CHEN: Really? Three galaxies for the price of one. 
ZEPHON: I do not understand you. 
CHEN: Perhaps I'm the one of those who knows my place. Are you coming in to take your seat? 
ZEPHON: They will not start the meeting without me. I feel like waiting here. 
(Bowing in a show of hollow courtesy, Chen goes inside, leaving Zephon alone in the reception area.)

[Conference room]

(The delegates are beginning to gather. The Black Dalek Supreme is already in position on a raised dais at the far end of the room. A second Dalek glides over and discreetly makes its report.) 
DALEK: Zephon. 
BLACK: It was expected. His usefulness is over.

[City wall]

(From the city wall, the Doctor, Bret and the others look down on the spaceport.) 
BRET: Look at that. 
STEVEN: Just look at those ships. Beautiful, aren't they? 
BRET: That one in the middle. That's from Earth. That's Mavic Chen's. 
DOCTOR: You know that spaceship? 
BRET: Yes, I do. It belongs to the Guardian of the Solar System. 
DOCTOR: Oh, then you'll know how to fly it? 
BRET: Yes, of course I do, but that's 
DOCTOR: Well, that's the one to go for, isn't it? 
BRET: I can't believe it. It doesn't make sense. 
STEVEN: If you know how to use it, what's the worry? 
BRET: He's the Guardian. Don't you understand? 
STEVEN: So what? We don't want him, just his ship. 
BRET: He's the ultimate head of the solar system. Now what's he doing here with the Daleks? 
STEVEN: That's what we'll have to find out, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Will you both be quiet, please! We're going to take that spaceship if we're going to warn Earth. 
STEVEN: Look out. 
(The Doctor creeps forward along the wall towards the reception area. When he gets to the end he peers round then ducks back out of sight, signalling the others to stay down. About twenty feet away, delegate Zephon is still transfixed by the fire on the horizon. Slowly he moves forward, coming nearer to the Doctor's hiding place. Bret edges towards the Doctor, signing as he approaches. The Doctor presses back against the wall as Bret moves past. When Zephon is near enough, Bret jumps out and knocks him unconscious. The travellers drag the creature out of sight.)

[Conference room]

(Inside the Dalek city, the conference room is almost full. Only one of the delegates is still missing.) 
BLACK: Where is the Master of Zephon? 
CHEN: He will be here. Eventually. 
BLACK: Search for him!

[Outside the Dalek City]

(Steven and Bret finish tying up Zephon with vines and creepers.) 
STEVEN: What is it? I've never seen anything like this. It's hideous. 
DOCTOR: Well, obvious or not, my boy, it's quite obvious he's one of the representatives. 
STEVEN: It's a good job we managed to find these vines. 
BRET: Now we can get to the ship. 
DOCTOR: No, no. Not yet, not yet. Not until we find out exactly what the Daleks are planning, and this may be our only chance. 
BRET: I don't understand. 
DOCTOR: I'm going to that conference. 
STEVEN: Doctor, that's crazy. You can't go to their conference. 
DOCTOR: Why not? If I wear his cloak, why not? 
STEVEN: Should they find you, they'll kill you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense. You three can take over the spaceship, and I can join you later. 
KATARINA: Are you sure you will be safe? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, now don't worry, my child, don't worry. 
(Taking Bret to one side, the Doctor hands him the tape he found in the jungle.) 
DOCTOR: I found this, and I don't know whether it's relevant or not, but hold onto it safely. 
BRET: Where did you find it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, in the jungle. Now I want you, I want you to give me enough time to get to that meeting and find out exactly what's going on. Then I will head back to Chen's spaceship. 
BRET: And how long will that take? 
DOCTOR: Well, I must leave that to your own judgment. If, of course, you hear any kind of uproar, well then you'll have to get into the spaceship and go off without me. 
BRET: Doctor, we can't leave you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, nonsense. Earth must be warned about the Daleks and about Chen. 
BRET: You are a very brave man. 
DOCTOR: Rubbish. Rubbish, my boy. I'm only doing what has to be done. Now come on, help me on with this cloak. Be quick about it. Come along.

[City corridor]

(As the Doctor struggles into Zephon's cloak and hood, the Daleks continue to search the city for the missing delegate.) 
DALEK 1: Has the representative Zephon passed this way? 
DALEK 2: He and the Earth creature went to the reception area. 
DALEK 1: Has he returned? 
DALEK 2: Only the creature from Earth returned this way. 
DALEK 1: Zephon must still be there. Come with me. He has to be found.

[Outside the City]

(Before long, the Daleks find the Doctor, now disguised as Zephon, close to the reception area.) 
DALEK 1: Representative Zephon? The meeting is about to begin. You will follow me. 
(The Doctor accompanies the first Dalek into the city, the second following behind to ensure his cooperation. As soon as it is safe, Steven, Bret and Katarina emerge from hiding.) 
BRET: The old man certainly has got nerve. 
KATARINA: The strange ones will not hurt him? 
STEVEN: I hope not. Anyway, he's doing his part, we must do ours. Let's get that ship. 
(They move off past the prone Zephon, who groans quietly and struggles feebly against his bonds.)

[Conference room]

(The Daleks escort the disguised Doctor into the conference room) 
TRANTIS: (with pointed teeth) The master of the Fifth Galaxy has seen fit to join us? 
BLACK: Take your place. 
(The Doctor moves towards what he hopes is Zephon's chair.) 
CHEN: You seem lost, representative Zephon. Here's your place, next to me. 
(Hesitantly, the Doctor moves to sit in the chair that Chen has indicated.) 
BLACK: This seventh meeting is now in session. Representatives, I have important news. The time destructor is now completed. It only requires the core to be fitted. 
(As the assembled representatives enthusiastically signal their approval, Mavic Chen moves up to stand alongside the Dalek Supreme.) 
BLACK: Mavic Chen, Guardian of the Solar System, will address the meeting. 
CHEN: As your most recent ally, and the newest member to stand in this great universal council, I am delighted to be able to make so significant a contribution to our conquest of the universe. I now present you with the core of the time destructor. A full emm of taranium, the rarest mineral in the universe. It's taken fifty Earth years to acquire even this amount. 
TRANTIS: If it has taken so long for the solar system to acquire it, why was not one of us of the outer galaxies asked to provide it? 
CHEN: As the Daleks know, taranium can only be found on one of the dead planets of the solar system. Without this, the time destructor is useless. All the plans made here could not succeed. I, Mavic Chen, give you the core of the time destructor. 
(Chen places the small box containing the taranium on the table before the Black Dalek. Regaining consciousness, Zephon finds himself tied hand and foot at the perimeter of the reception area. Struggling unsuccessfully to free himself, he spots an emergency alarm and begins to shuffle towards it.)

[Spar ship]

(Meanwhile, Bret has let Steven and Katarina into the spaceport, where they sneak aboard Chen's Spar and take the engineer and pilot by surprise.) 
BRET: I'm taking over this spaceship. Over there. Tie them up. 
(With great determination, Zephon edges closer and closer to the emergency alarm. As Steven and Katarina dump the bound and gagged crew of the Spar outside the ship.) 
KATARINA: The men will not be found? 
STEVEN: No, not unless the Daleks patrol the landing area. 
BRET: That's the one place they won't be patrolling. 
STEVEN: Let's hope not, otherwise it's the end of the Doctor. 
KATARINA: He must come. he must come. 
(Gasping from the exertion, Zephon finally manages to raise the alarm. Inside the Spar, Bret and the others fear that the alarm must mean the Doctor has been discovered.)

[Conference room]

(The room erupts into chaos.) 
DALEK 1: Locate intruders! Locate intruders! 
CHEN: What's happening? 
DALEK 2: Seal off the area. 
DALEK 3: Check alarm location. 
DALEK 4: Report! Alarm! Report! 
(Seizing his chance, the Doctor snatches the taranium core from the table and makes for the entrance ramp as Zephon appears at the top. The Doctor turns and dashes towards another exit.) 
ZEPHON: That's him! Stop him! Stop the creature! Stop the creature!

[Spar ship]

BRET: We've got to go. 
STEVEN: We mustn't leave him! 
KATARINA: (praying) Great One, don't leave us. Don't let the strange beings catch you. 
BRET: He's been caught. We've got to leave. 
STEVEN: No. 
BRET: He said we had to leave. 
STEVEN: No! 
KATARINA: Stop! Without him, we can't reach the place of perfection. 
BRET: We won't. We're going without him. 
(And he gets the engines fired up.)

Episode 3 - Devil's Planet

[Spar ship]

BRET: We're going into countdown. 
STEVEN: That light! 
BRET: It's the outer door! It's not fully shut. Quick, or we'll all be sucked out! 
STEVEN: Hold countdown! It's the Doctor! 
(Bret freezes the countdown sequence, and they help the breathless Doctor into the ship.) 
DOCTOR: Get us off, Bret! Get us off! Get us off! Take off, man. 
BRET: Stand by, everyone. Take off! 
DOCTOR: That was rather violent acceleration, young man.

[Dalek Control room]

(The Dalek Supreme is showing signs of great agitation as they track the launch of Chen's Spar.) 
DALEK 1: Altitude 5 sections. Speed 3000. 
DALEK 2: Vessel attained gravitational escape velocity. 
BLACK: Cut in automatic trackers. 
DALEK 2: All is ready for their space extinction. 
BLACK: Do not destroy! That vessel must not be destroyed. 
DALEK 1: Trackers operating. 
BLACK: Prepare Neutronic Randomiser. 
DALEK 1: Stand by Randomiser. 
BLACK: The intruders must be caught alive.

[Spar ship]

(Unaware of the Dalek's intentions, the Doctor and his companions believe they've had a lucky escape.) 
DOCTOR: Well done, Bret, Well done. You got us off very well. 
BRET: Thanks. I thought you weren't going to make it. 
DOCTOR: Of course I was. You're far too pessimistic. Now, where's that little box of mine? 
STEVEN: This one? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Ah, splendid, splendid. The Daleks' plans are utterly useless without this. 
STEVEN: Why? what did you find out at the Council meeting? 
DOCTOR: They've allied themselves with the rulers of the outer galaxies to take over the Universe. 
BRET: Universe? 
DOCTOR: Yes, their first objective being Earth and then the solar system. 
STEVEN: Then we've got to warn Earth and fast! 
BRET: But what about Mavic Chen? 
DOCTOR: Oh, he's one of them, my friend. By sacrificing the Solar System, he hopes to gain more power. 
BRET: That's impossible! 
DOCTOR: Oh no it isn't, no it isn't! Therefore we must get to Earth before him. 
KATARINA: But how can we return to Earth? We've already left it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know, my dear, but this is not Earth as we see it. Effectively it's something very different. 
BRET: What's the matter with this girl? I mean where's she from? 
STEVEN: Oh it's all right. She helped us in Troy. She doesn't really understand. 
BRET: Troy? 
STEVEN: Yes. Well come on, Doctor, what's so special about that box? 
DOCTOR: Well, as I said before my boy, the Daleks' plans are utterly useless without this. 
STEVEN: Then we've won! 
DOCTOR: Tut, tut, tut. Don't open it, please. 
STEVEN: Why not? 
DOCTOR: It will burn your eyes. You'll go totally blind! That is a full emm of taranium. 
BRET: What? 
DOCTOR: Taranium. 
BRET: That can only be found on the planet Uranus. A full measure would take years to mine! 
DOCTOR: Fifty years, to be precise, and Mavic Chen has given this to the Daleks to complete one of the most evil weapons ever devised. Their Time Destructor.

[Conference room]

BLACK: Representative Zephon! You deny that your negligence caused the loss of the taranium core? 
ZEPHON: Had the Daleks made full security arrangements, the invaders would not have reached the city. 
CHEN: Had the Master of the Fifth Galaxy been less arrogant, he would have gone with me to the meeting. Instead he preferred to keep us all waiting. 
ZEPHON: I believe the intruders came from the Solar System. 
CHEN: Did you see them? 
ZEPHON: No. 
CHEN: Did they speak and tell you so? 
ZEPHON: No. 
CHEN: Then your accusation is preposterous. 
ZEPHON: How is it the intruders knew that the taranium was here and that it was to be handed over, if they did not come from the Solar System? None of the others knew what was that Representative Mavic Chen was bringing here. 
BLACK: Have you nothing to say? 
CHEN: This is absurd. Why should I arrange that fifty years be spent secretly mining to acquire this mineral only to have it stolen? 
ZEPHON: The quest for power. Perhaps you wanted to use the core for yourself! 
CHEN: How? Only the Daleks know how to assemble the Time Destructor. I only provided the vital ingredient of the core. 
ZEPHON: I didn't know about the core. How could I? 
BLACK: You knew about the intruders. 
ZEPHON: We all did. You were going to deal with them, or so you said. 
BLACK: Silence! It is agreed that you are guilty of negligence. 
(Slowly, the other delegates line up behind Mavic Chen and the Dalek Supreme. Zephon knows he's beaten, but offers one final argument.) 
ZEPHON: If I go, the Masters of Celation and Beaus go with me. 
BLACK: You threaten our unity. 
ZEPHON: I have nothing to say. I will leave now. 
(Disgusted, defeated, Zephon turns to leave for the spaceport and the safety of his ship, but a group of Daleks move to block his path. Their intention is clear. Zephon's arrogance turns to terror as the Supreme Dalek gives the order.) 
BLACK: Execute! 
(Zephon topples to the floor in a smoking heap.)

[Dalek control room]

BLACK: Where is the ship? 
DALEK: Course 707. It is approaching the influence of the planet Desperus. 
BLACK: Prepare pursuit ships. Stand by Randomiser.

[Spar ship]

(The Doctor, Bret and Steven are taking a look at the stolen taranium. They all wear visors to protect their eyes from the intense glare of the core.) 
STEVEN: That is taranium. 
DOCTOR: Yes, the rarest mineral in the universe. 
STEVEN: Funny. It makes your eyes feel strange even with these on. It's like looking into the sun for too long. 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't complain, young man. You're a very privileged person. Do you realise very few people have seen this in this universe. 
STEVEN: All right, Doctor. But now that we've got it what are we going to do with it? 
DOCTOR: Well, for the moment, nothing. 
STEVEN: That doesn't make sense. I mean, you said yourself that the Daleks have the most dangerous weapon ever devised. 
DOCTOR: We have the taranium, so for the moment we do nothing. And by doing nothing, we do everything. Do I make myself clear? 
STEVEN: Come off it, Doctor. What's all that supposed to mean? 
DOCTOR: Oh my dear young man, you ask so many questions. Look at Katarina over there. She doesn't ask questions, she just looks and learns. Now, why don't you try the same thing? You know I find all this extremely fascinating. It's a little primitive of course, but it's still very fascinating. 
STEVEN: Look Doctor, I'm sorry, but can't we do anything? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Bret, can you find me something to play magnetic tape? 
BRET: Yes, Doctor. Here. 
DOCTOR: Well my dear fellow, that's magnificent. It's all so convenient, isn't it. I'll play that tape that I gave you before I went to the Daleks' conference? 
STEVEN: What tape's that? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I found a small tape beside a skeleton and it might be able to tell us something. Katarina! Come over here, my child. Now, have a look at another wonder. 
KATARINA: Everything is so strange. This isn't like your Tardis. 
DOCTOR: No, my dear, no. 
STEVEN: Yes, but Doctor, surely, I mean, the Daleks aren't going to leave a tape around with their plans on it? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no. Bret here was searching for someone and the skeleton I found was humanoid. Well, whoever it was may learned something that we haven't. 
BRET: Marc Cory! You found him? Well, Kurt and I searched that jungle but we could find no trace. 
DOCTOR: Well, did you search that pairing twice? 
BRET: How do you mean? 
DOCTOR: Well, it so happens that kind of jungle is apt to lead you back to the same place more than once. 
BRET: Yes but we were methodical or as methodical as the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes no doubt you were and I suppose I was lucky. Now play the tape. Come along, come along, stop all this talking. 
CORY [OC]: This is Marc Cory, Special Security Agent, reporting from the planet Kembel. 
BRET: You were right. 
CORY [OC]: The Daleks are planning the complete destruction of the Galaxy. Together with the powers of the outer galaxies, a war force is being assembled and 
STEVEN: That's all? 
BRET: Poor Marc. He never got through. 
DOCTOR: But we must. The Daleks will stop at anything to prevent us.

[Dalek Control room]

(Two Daleks continue to track the progress of the Spar as the Dalek Supreme stands behind them to observe developments.) 
DALEK: Ship now at closest point to planet Desperus. 
BLACK: Operate Randomiser!

[Spar ship]

(Oblivious to the approaching danger, the Doctor and his companions are discussing their next move.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, you must find someone who you can trust. Someone in a high enough position that may be able to help. 
BRET: Well, Karlton is the man in charge of all Space Security, but he's very close to Chen. 
STEVEN: Yes, this chap Karlton, he may be part of the plan with the Daleks. 
BRET: It's possible. 
KATARINA: What's happening? 
(As the Dalek's Randomiser takes effect, the Spar lurches.) 
DOCTOR: We're changing course. 
(The dials on the control panel begin to fluctuate wildly.) 
BRET: The steering boosters won't fire. I can't get her round. 
STEVEN: Switch to manual control! 
BRET: I can't. We're picking up speed. 
DOCTOR: You know I believe we're approaching the gravitation point of that planet. 
BRET: Desperus! 
(Bret fights with the controls. His expression suggests this is not a planet he would choose to visit.) 
DOCTOR: Has it any kind of atmosphere? 
BRET: Yes. But we can't get off there, we'll never be able to get off again. 
STEVEN: Why not? What's wrong with it? 
BRET: Desperus is the penal planet of the Solar System. 
DOCTOR: Well, if it's one of your prison planets, surely there are guards and warders there to help us. 
BRET: They're aren't any. The only craft which stop there are prison ships bringing other criminals. If we crash there, we'll be left there to rot for the rest of our lives away. 
DOCTOR: You must try to land softly somewhere. 
BRET: I can't! This vessel is out of my control! 
(The Spar plunges towards Desperus.)

[Dalek Control room]

DALEK: Space vessel's instruments now randomised. 
DALEK 2: On course for planet Desperus. Impact in point 6. Remote control standing by. 
BLACK: Cut in remote control. 
DALEK: Now under Dalek control. 
BLACK: Reduce descent velocity. Vessel must make soft landing. 
DALEK: I obey. 
BLACK: Pursuit ships to stand by. 
CHEN: A highly effective operation. May I congratulate you? 
BLACK: Dalek technology is the most advanced in the Universe. 
CHEN: You still haven't recovered the taranium. 
BLACK: We shall. It is strange that the intruders took your space vessel. Perhaps they were indeed creatures from Earth. 
CHEN: My Spar was the last to arrive here, so consequently was in the best position to leave quickly. But to set your mind at rest, I will return to Earth now and if I find that the intruders do come from there, they will be dealt with quickly and without arousing any suspicion. 
BLACK: Very well. A vessel similar to your own craft will be put at your disposal. 
CHEN: I will return here as soon as all final preparations for the take over are completed. 
BLACK: All will be in readiness. 
CHEN: Good. We don't want any more mistakes.

[Spar ship]

STEVEN: We've shut right down. 
BRET: We're going to be able to make a soft landing. I don't understand it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm afraid I do, only too well. 
STEVEN: Daleks? Well, it's some sort of remote control, I suppose. We'd all better prepare for landing. 
DOCTOR: You're quite right, my boy. 
BRET: If it's the Daleks, it can only mean one thing. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it means that they coming after us again.

[Desperus]

(Life on Desperus is primitive for those unfortunate enough to be sent there. In a dank gloomy cave three men sit around a rough table engaged in a power struggle that focuses on a crude knife stuck into the centre. After a brief and violent tussle Bors is victorious, and tucks the knife into his belt, nodding coarsely at two women in the corner.) 
BORS: It's mine again, and they stay where you are. 
GARGE: With the soft life you lead, I'll be able to beat you one day. 
BORS: Out on guard! 
GARGE: Why is it always me? 
BORS: I'm the leader. I have the knife. Do you want to argue about it? 
(Garge looks sourly at Bors then, grumbling to himself picks up a crude club and leaves the cave. His leadership confirmed for now, Bors settles down to sleep. Outside, winged creatures wheel and turn in the darkening sky as Garge settles down to guard duty. Soon all is quiet. Kirksen, who is still smarting from his earlier humiliation, cannot sleep, but when he's sure that Bors is asleep, Kirksen edges around the cave stealthily crawling across the floor to where Bors is lying. He reaches for the knife in Bors' belt. Bors is instantly awake and grabs Kirksen roughly by the wrist.) 
BORS: And you can build up the fire. Kirksen, like the knife, would you? Then you'd be leader. You could tell Garge what to do, like I do. You can tell me what to do! 
KIRKSEN: I'll get it next time! 
BORS: Who knows, perhaps you will. Now, get out and get the fuel. 
(Kirksen points to the sleeping women.) 
KIRKSEN: Why don't you send one of them? 
BORS: Get it! 
(Garge has spotted the spacecraft overhead) 
BORS: I can hear it, now get out before one of the new lot come here and take over our place. 
GARGE: That's not a prison ship. It's strange. I haven't seen one like it before. 
BORS: Where's it landing? 
GARGE: In the swamp by the look of things. 
KIRKSEN: It's a strange ship. We can kill the crew and take over. 
BORS: Possibly. 
KIRKSEN: We can use it to get away. 
BORS: It may be a crash landing. 
KIRKSEN: But you can kill the crew with your knife. 
BORS: Shut up! We'd better get over there right away. Others will have seen it too. Now on your way! 
KIRKSEN: What about me? If you're leaving this filthy planet so am I. 
(Kirksen searches the cave for some kind of weapon, then hurries out after Bors and Garge.(

[Spar ship]

(Steven and Bret are making repairs to the ship while Katarina watches at the main door.) 
DOCTOR: Now, you sure you've got spare parts for this? 
BRET: Certain. It's safety regulations. 
DOCTOR: It's the worse of these out-of-date and primitive spaceships. One little bump and they all fall to bits. 
BRET: Doctor, what are you talking about? This is a Spar, the most technically perfect craft in the history of space travel. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, quite so. That's why we are stranded on this pimple of a planet, whilst you footle with that fuse box. 
STEVEN: Oh, come on, Doctor. The Tardis isn't exactly perfect is it? I mean, you can't even control where's we're going. 
DOCTOR: Now, you listen to me, young man. Don't you start to criticise my Tardis. And as for space travel, you're still wet behind the ears. Oh, do get on with it both of you. 
BRET: What's the matter with Grandpa? 
STEVEN: Oh, it's nothing, we all have our obsessions, don't we? Now come on, Do you think we're going to have enough drive force to lift off here and get us back to Earth? 
BRET: We've got to. Now, as the Doctor said, let's get on with it. 
(The Doctor finds Katarina staring out of the open door into the night.) 
DOCTOR: What are you doing out here, child? I thought I told you to keep these doors closed. 
KATARINA: There are lights out there. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious, so there are. Two. No, three. Yes, we must get on with the repairs to the ship and get away from here. Yes, those men will be vicious out there. We're liable to come under attack. That's marshy ground. Very interesting. Very interesting. Interesting.

[Dalek Control room]

DALEK: The exact location of the ship has been calculated. 
BLACK: Inform the pursuit fleet. 
DALEK: I obey. 
DALEK [OC]: Pursuit Fleet Commander calling control. We will land on planet Desperus at one hundred. 
BLACK: When the taranium is recovered, the fugitives are to be eliminated. Is that understood? 
DALEK [OC]: I obey.

[Desperus]

(Out in the swamp, Bors, Kirksen and Garge are huddled under some bushes, observing the Spar from a safe distance. It appears that they are the first of the resident convicts to reach the crash site but they're still wary.) 
KIRKSEN: We were here first, let's go and get it. 
GARGE: Keep quiet. This part of the swamp is tricky. We must put out the torches. 
KIRKSEN: What about the screamers? 
BORS: Shut up and put out that light! They're only bats. 
KIRKSEN: Bats! Bats with those wings and that big! 
BORS: Oh, now follow us or go back to the cave. 
(Bors and Garge move off across the swamp towards the Spar. Kirksen remains where he is, frozen with fear. Out of the darkness the screamers attack. Flailing in terror, Kirksen runs off into the night.)

[Spar ship]

KATARINA: Doctor. Doctor! 
STEVEN: Look, hold that reading steady, I think I can get this fixed. 
BRET: Good. 
KATARINA: Come on, Doctor. 
(At last the Doctor appears in the doorway and Katarina helps him clamber back inside.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you, my dear. Where is your cactic power, rather, outlet? 
BRET: What? 
DOCTOR: Cactic outlet? 
BRET: It's there. 
DOCTOR: Where? 
BRET: Under there. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Come here, my dear. No, round this way, child. Now, do you see that switch? I'll tell you when to pull it. 
KATARINA: What are you doing? 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't ask questions, my dear girl, otherwise you'll become like the other two. Just do as you're told. 
(The Doctor pays out a length of cable from the cactic outlet across the control room to the door, where he throws the loose end down into the swamp below.) 
DOCTOR: Now then. That should repel any boarders.

[Desperus]

BORS: It's there. We'll nearly there. 
GARGE: How many do you think are on board? 
BORS: How should I know? Difficult to say, with a ship of that size. 
GARGE: At least we've got surprise on our side. Pity we lost Kirksen. 
BORS: Fool's probably gone back to the cave, frightened by the screamers. Better just the two of us. 
GARGE: We've in the swamp now. 
BORS: Yes, but go carefully.

[Spar ship]

(Katarina catches sight of the convicts approaching the ship.) 
KATARINA: There. Doctor, something moved. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you're right, my dear. Now you go in and stand by that switch. Wait until I'll give you an order. 
(Katarina does as she is told. Outside the convicts creep closer to the ship, eventually breaking cover. The Doctor waits until he's sure the men are close enough, and then) 
DOCTOR: Now! 
(Roaring with surprise and pain, Bors and Garge are lit up in a blinding flash of light. They collapse, unconscious.) 
STEVEN: What's going on? 
BRET: What do you think you're playing at? 
DOCTOR: Oh you two go back in there and get on with your repairs. Katarina and I are trying to repel any type of boarders. 
BRET: But cactic power isn't strong enough to kill anyone. 
DOCTOR: But of course not. But it will knock them unconscious. Now just you remember, young man, I have no desire to kill anyone. Now go in there and get on with those repairs. I want to leave this place quickly. Hurry up please. Wasting my time. Well I think that should do the trick, my dear. Come along, let's get this cable back. There we are. 
KATARINA: You show me so many strange mysteries. With you I know I'm safe. 
DOCTOR: I hope so, my dear, I hope so. 
(There's a loud screeching noise outside. Doctor crosses to the door in alarm. Staring into the sky he realises that the Daleks have caught up with them. He dashes back into the craft, closing the inner airlock door behind him.) 
DOCTOR: It's the Dalek Spaceship! It's bound to land. Hurry up! 
STEVEN: We're being as quick as we can. 
DOCTOR: Get off, get off, get off! 
STEVEN: That's it, Bret! 
BRET: All right. Right, stand by everyone. As this take off is on now manual, it may not be quite so smooth. 
BRET: Doctor, did you close the outer door? 
DOCTOR: Oh I'm so sorry, I'm not used to this kind of craft. 
BRET: It's all right, it doesn't matter. 
(Bret pulls a lever and a red light on the console stops flashing, indicating that the exterior door is now closed. To the scream of rocket motors the Spar heaves itself away from the surface of Desperus. Glancing at the viewing screen, the Doctor is delighted at what he sees.) 
DOCTOR: Look! Look! The Daleks' ship made a bad landing. That gives us the time we need. 
STEVEN: We made it! 
BRET: Next stop, Earth. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm so glad to hear that, young man. Now, you got some thinking to do. Katarina, check up on that door and see that it is secure. 
STEVEN: Do you realise 
(Katarina screams.)

Episode 4 - The Traitors

[Spar ship]

DOCTOR: Remember, Chen will have allies on earth and 
KIRKSEN: Keep back! 
(Kirksen holds Katarina in a vice-like grip.) 
DOCTOR: Who are you? What do you want? Release that girl! 
KIRKSEN: Never mind! Who's in charge of this thing? Answer me! 
BRET: I am. 
KIRKSEN: Where are you heading? 
BRET: Earth. 
KIRKSEN: Change course. Change it! 
BRET: Where to? 
KIRKSEN: Not Earth. Go to the planet Kembel. 
DOCTOR: Kembel! 
KIRKSEN: Shut up and do as I say! 
BRET: Kembel's deserted, man. It's as bad as Desperus. 
KIRKSEN: Nowhere's as bad as Desperus! 
STEVEN: The Daleks are on Kembel! 
KIRKSEN: So? 
DOCTOR: The Daleks are no help, We're going back to Earth. 
KIRKSEN: Then I shall be sent back to the Devil's planet! No, whoever the Daleks are, they'll help me. 
STEVEN: You don't know about them. 
KIRKSEN: I said go to Kembel! Kembel!

[Dalek Control centre]

(The Daleks receive news from Desperus.) 
DALEK [OC]: Only slight damage was sustained. We are ready to continue pursuit of Earth vessel. 
BLACK: What is course of Earth vessel? 
DALEK: Back on course 707 heading for Earth. 
BLACK: Contact Mavic Chen through secret communication red. He must recapture the taranium and exterminate creatures who took it. 
DALEK: I obey. 
BLACK: Pursuit vessel, return to base. 
DALEK [OC]: We obey. 
(The Supreme severs the radio link.) 
BLACK: Destroy pursuit ship. They have failed in their mission. We will not tolerate mistakes.

[Spar ship]

(Bret and Steven work at the navigation controls.) 
DOCTOR: We're changing course. Now release that girl. 
KIRKSEN: Do you think I'm a fool? 
STEVEN: Course is changed. We're heading for Kembel. 
KIRKSEN: It doesn't feel as if we've changed. 
BRET: Well, look up at the screen and you'll see. 
(Steven launches himself at Kirksen, who shoves him away and drags Katarina into the airlock.) 
STEVEN: Well open the door from the control panel. I'll rush him! 
DOCTOR: The girl will be dead before the door's half open! Can we talk to him in there? 
BRET: Yes, I've turned on the talkback. 
DOCTOR: Let's try a little bluff. Now, then! Listen to me, whoever you are. Bring that girl in here, or we will press a button and you will go outside the door into space. 
KIRKSEN: Then the girl dies too. If you open the outside door I'll press the inner release and then we'll all be dead! 
BRET: We can't seem to get through to him. He's crazy. 
DOCTOR: We've got to get Katarina out of there! 
(Bret cuts off the audio link to the airlock.) 
STEVEN: Stop that! Turn the talkback on again! 
BRET: There's no point. 
STEVEN: Turn it on again, before he really hurts her. 
BRET: Look, he can't kill her or he hasn't a hostage. 
(Steven turns the talkback back on and shouts) 
STEVEN: You animal! 
KIRKSEN: Now that's just for starters. Do as I say! 
DOCTOR: Change course! 
KIRKSEN: Now, that's more like it! 
DOCTOR: Take him back to Kembel. Take him back to Kembel! Let the Daleks deal with him. 
STEVEN: Yes, and us. 
DOCTOR: Don't worry, dear boy, We'll find a way out. 
(Katarina has been screaming almost all the time.) 
KIRKSEN: Stop that or you're dead! 
BRET: I can't sacrifice everything for the sake of that one girl. 
STEVEN: Listen! Without us you wouldn't have got off Kembel at all, and nothing would be worth bothering about! 
BRET: All right, so we all go back together. But without me, I doubt that you would have got this far either. 
STEVEN: Yes, all right, but I won't let you hurt Katarina. We'll head back for Kembel as the Doctor says. On the way we may find a way to get her out of there. 
(Katarina pulls free of Kirksen, clawing at his face with one hand and reaching for the door controls with the other.) 
KIRKSEN: You won't. 
STEVEN: No, not that one! Katarina! 
(The outer doors open and they are blow out) 
STEVEN: Katarina! Too late. 
(There's a stunned silence aboard the Spar as the crew try to comprehend what has happened.) 
STEVEN: She pressed the wrong button, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: She may have wanted to, dear boy. She wanted to save our lives. 
BRET: It must have been quick. 
DOCTOR: I hope she's reached her Place of Perfection. 
STEVEN: Yes, but not that way. 
DOCTOR: She didn't understand. She couldn't understand. She wanted to save our lives and perhaps the lives of all the other beings of the Solar System. I hope she's found her Perfection. Oh, how I shall always remember her as one of the Daughters of the Gods. Yes, as one of the Daughters of the Gods.

[Dalek Control centre]

TRANTIS: Dalek Supreme, you have failed to get back the core of the time destructor. 
BLACK: We shall get it back. 
TRANTIS: You show too much trust in Mavic Chen. 
BLACK: Mavic Chen is hungry for power. We have offered him more power than he has ever thought of. He will return to us the taranium core. 
TRANTIS: Supposing he fails? 
BLACK: He will not. He had been given instructions. 
TRANTIS: What instructions? 
BLACK: It is not necessary for you to know. 
TRANTIS: As Representative of the largest of the outer galaxies, I have the right to know! 
BLACK: Representative Trantis. The Daleks will not fail and neither will any of its' allies. If anything tries to stop us we will destroy it. Nothing will be allowed to stand in the way of our plan to conquer the Universe!

[Spar ship]

(The mood is sombre. Bret and Steven are at the controls as it approaches Earth.) 
DOCTOR: Judging by the position of those planets, we shall land quite soon. 
BRET: Yes and that's the problem. It won't be easy. 
DOCTOR: Oh, haven't we sufficient powerdrive to land safely? 
BRET: Yes but we can't land at the main landing area. Remember, this is Chen's space vessel. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you've got a point there. Where can we land? 
BRET: An experimental plant a little way off from Central City. I have a friend there I think will help us.

[Chen's office]

(On his return to Earth, Chen has a meeting in his office with Lizan, and Karlton the Head of the Special Security Service.) 
CHEN: So that's our traitor. 
LIZAN: Yes, Bret Vyon. Bred on Mars Colony 16. Joined Space Security Service 3990. Gained First Rank 3995. Gained Second Rank 3998. 
CHEN: You have a good memory. 
LIZAN: Thank you, Guardian. 
CHEN: And he looks like that? 
LIZAN: Exactly like that. How can he look otherwise? Guardian, have you no faith in computerised data? 
CHEN: Every faith. But this information is vital. The man is dangerous and must be caught. I would hate there to be any mistake. 
LIZAN: A mistake is impossible. Our computer network contains precise chemical details of every man, woman, and child within our Solar System. 
CHEN: There are forty billion people in the Solar System. Doesn't that provide some scope for error? 
LIZAN: There is no scope for error. 
CHEN: Very well, have it sent out to all stations. Now, what about Gantry, the other traitor? 
LIZAN: We're working on his identity projection now. It should be ready shortly. 
KARLTON: Since Vyon is in command, I gave priority to his projection. 
CHEN: Excellent. Excellent! Vyon and Gantry were the two who never reported in from the planet, Kembel, am I right? 
LIZAN: Yes, Guardian. 
CHEN: Then they are the two who took over my Spar. It's possible they may be in association with some other creatures. But we don't know where from. 
KARLTON: When you catch Vyon and Gantry, you catch them, too. 
(Chen turns to gaze benevolently at Lizan.) 
CHEN: You've done well. I want all Space Security agents called back to Earth. If the traitors are not caught at the landing zone, then Central City must be cordoned off until they are found. And Lizan! They will be killed on sight. Give out the instructions. 
LIZAN: Yes, Guardian. 
(Lizan leaves the office, delighted to have been of service to the leader she so admires. Chen turns to Karlton.) 
CHEN: I think that takes care of that. You know, Karlton, some of your agents are getting too good. We don't want to spoil things for ourselves at this stage. 
KARLTON: They won't. I've already insisted that all future operations shall be cleared with me before they're begun. 
CHEN: If you'd done that in the first place, we wouldn't be in this spot. 
KARLTON: Cory's mission was one that he kept to himself. It was done without official sanction of any kind. 
CHEN: And you could hardly have stopped the others after his distress signal. You must do better than that. I would hate to have to lose you. 
KARLTON: You know you can trust me.

[Spar ship]

(Steven and the Doctor are strapped into their seats in preparation for landing.) 
BRET: The drive force is very weak. 
DOCTOR: But can we land? 
BRET: Yes, but I don't know what would happen. The pull is too hard. 
STEVEN: We can't crash now! 
BRET: I'm afraid I may not be able to help it. 
STEVEN: Yes, well remember, Bret, we got some valuable cargo on board. 
BRET: What, the taranium? 
STEVEN: And the Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I heard that. Now, don't concern yourselves over me. I can look after myself. The most important factor is this taranium. 
BRET: Right, stand by.

[Chen's office]

(Contemplating the huge map of the Universe that dominates the wall of his office, Chen almost forgets that Karlton is still in the room with him. His plans for universal domination are now at risk. Years of careful scheming sabotaged by the theft of the taranium.) 
CHEN: Only because of the taranium am I on the council. 
KARLTON: It will be returned. 
CHEN: It's got to be. I want that position, right beside the Daleks. I'll govern the Universe! 
KARLTON: Surely Trantis will be first after the Daleks? 
CHEN: Trantis? Trantis! They don't like him. Agreed that his is the largest galaxy, but he's already demanding too much say in what goes on. They'll want him out of the way now, and I have a plan which may help them to achieve just that. Then it'll be me, Mavic Chen, who'll be next in line. 
KARLTON: And I will be there behind you. 
CHEN: Of course. 
KARLTON: Of course. 
CHEN: Is your Special Force dealing with Bret Vyon? 
KARLTON: Not completely. I thought it wiser to use some of the ordinary security men. 
CHEN: Hmm, very good. We'll need your men next time. Who's in command? 
KARLTON: Kingdom. 
CHEN: Kingdom? Ruthless, hard, efficient. And does exactly as ordered. 
KARLTON: Quite. 
(Karlton picks up the communications receiver on the desk and listens for a moment.) 
KARLTON: Ah ha! I see. Carry out emergency plan B. The traitors have arrived. 
CHEN: Good. 
KARLTON: But not at the landing area. 
CHEN: What? 
KARLTON: They have crash-landed at the experimental station.

[Experimental station]

(Uninjured despite their bumpy landing, the Doctor, Steven and Bret are now inside the main complex. BRET: No one here. We'll have to wait. Come on. 
(Bret leads the Doctor and Steven into the empty office of his friend Daxtar. As he closes the door, a Special Security agent appears at the end of the corridor.)

[Chen's office]

(A little while later, Karlton reports back to Chen.) 
KARLTON: Kingdom is here. 
CHEN: Good. Come in, Kingdom, come in. 
(Kingdom enters. Sara Kingdom. She is strikingly attractive, dressed in the black cat suit of all SSS operatives but she is unsmiling, her blue-grey eyes lacking any warmth. Here is direct descendant of Princess Joanna from The Crusades, as she is played by Jean Marsh.) 
CHEN: You know what's happened? 
SARA: Yes. 
CHEN: Do you know how many there are? 
SARA: Three. Bret Vyon and two strangers. They look as though they could come from Earth but are oddly dressed. None of them can leave the plant. 
CHEN: Good. 
SARA: They're in the main block. I'm going to capture them myself. 
CHEN: Before you do that, there is something you have to know.

[Daxtar's office]

(Steven is restlessly pacing around the room as they wait.) 
STEVEN: Look, where on earth is this Daxtar? 
BRET: He shouldn't be long. 
DOCTOR: And I think we're just wasting valuable time sitting about here waiting for this man, Baxter or Daxtor or whatever he call himself. 
BRET: Doctor, Daxtar is in a position to help us. 
DOCTOR: Surely everyone must know that Chen's space-ship has crash-landed only a short distance away from here. There must be hundreds of people looking for us! 
BRET: Doctor, there are very few people allowed near this place, it's a restricted area. Look, don't you understand that Chen will probably have returned to Earth by this time. He'd have realised that I was the man on the planet Kembel. I expect we're wanted men by this time. 
DOCTOR: But this is an experimental plant, There's no scientists, no staff, nobody! We might just as well have landed ourselves on an empty planet. What on Earth is happening? 
BRET: Doctor, I don't know anymore than you do. 
DOCTOR: Has it occurred to you, by any chance, that we might have deliberately walked into an ambush? 
STEVEN: What's the point in standing here just waiting to be caught? 
BRET: Because Daxtar is the only man who will believe our story. 
DAXTAR: What story? 
(The three turn to see Daxtar in the doorway)

[Chen's office]

CHEN: So you will understand that it's absolutely essential that this emm of taranium is returned to me. 
SARA: Of course. Every precaution for it's safety will be taken. 
CHEN: Good. See to it. 
(Sara leaves the room, already focused singlemindedly on her mission. Karlton watches her go then turns to Chen.) 
KARLTON: She actually believed you. 
CHEN: Of course. 
KARLTON: I thought for a moment you were really going to tell her about the Daleks. 
CHEN: Oh, come. We need that taranium back, but we can't allow any more people to know the plan. 
KARLTON: I was watching her all the time. She never doubted anything, even momentarily. 
CHEN: A good security agent. A heroic war cry to apparently peaceful ends is one of the greatest weapons a politician has.

[Daxtar's office]

DAXTAR: Mavic Chen? The Daleks? I can't believe it. 
BRET: The Doctor saw it. 
DOCTOR: Quite true. And then he gave a rather pompous speech of self-satisfaction and handed over the core of the Time Destructor to the Daleks. 
STEVEN: They intend to capture or destroy the Solar System and Chen is helping them. 
DAXTAR: But why? 
DOCTOR: A lust for more power than he already has. Universal power. 
DAXTAR: It's incredible. 
STEVEN: Oh don't worry about it's incredibility. We got to do something to stop him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so. So whatever plans you have, it's essential that Steven and I return to the planet Kembel. I want to recover something of unique value. 
DAXTAR: You didn't leave the taranium there? 
STEVEN: No, no, the Doctor has it. 
DAXTAR: Good. That gives us a little time. 
BRET: Very little. We've got to move fast. 
DAXTAR: Of course. We must get down to the Security buildings at once. The planets must all be alerted. A combined Task Force must be sent off to Kembel immediately. 
DOCTOR: No. 
BRET: What do you mean, Doctor? What are you playing at? 
DOCTOR: I suggest you ask Daxtar what he is playing at. 
DAXTAR: I don't understand. Look, this situation must be dealt with at once. 
DOCTOR: What price is Mavic Chen paying you for your treachery? 
BRET: Treachery? I've known this man all my life. He's no traitor. 
DOCTOR: Long acquaintance is no guarantee for honesty. Ask him. Ask him how he came to know that the core of their Time Destructor was taranium! 
DAXTAR: Don't be so ridiculous! One of you mentioned it when you were telling me. Why you yourself, mentioned it when you said that Chen handed the stuff over. 
DOCTOR: I did not, sir. How long have you been in this conspiracy? 
DAXTAR: What conspiracy? You're making a stupid mistake! 
DOCTOR: There is you, and Chen, and how many of the others? Or what others are involved? 
DAXTAR: Look Bret, you've known me for many years. You know I wouldn't be mixed up in anything like this! 
BRET: How did you know about the taranium? 
DAXTAR: He told me. For heaven's sake, you must have heard him. You too! 
BRET: Traitor! 
(Bret draws his gun and Daxtar backs away. Hesitating but a moment, Bret pulls the trigger. Daxtar screams and falls dead. The Doctor looks on, appalled.) 
DOCTOR: You brainless idiot! How many times have I told you about taking lives? We have other ways and means of dealing with evil doers. 
BRET: He deserved worse. 
DOCTOR: Possibly! But now we shall never know whom we can trust!

[Dalek Control centre]

DALEK: A signal from the planet Earth. 
BLACK: Report. 
DALEK: Mavic Chen has almost recaptured the taranium core and will be returning with it to land here in two Earth days. 
BLACK: Have the fugitives been exterminated? 
DALEK: The report did not say. But it is believed that they come from the tenth galaxy under the leadership of Trantis. 
TRANTIS: That is not true. It is a plot by Mavic Chen to discredit me. He is jealous of my power in the outer galaxies. 
BLACK: We shall see. Has the report been confirmed? 
DALEK: No. It was a suspicion by the Earth people. 
TRANTIS: It is Chen! He is trying to undermine the balance of the Galactic Council. 
BLACK: When Mavic Chen returns we shall discover the truth. By then those who stole the taranium will have been identified and exterminated!

[Daxtar's office]

(Bret is working hard to convince the others that he has a workable plan.) 
BRET: I'm going to get into the Security building and send out the warning myself. 
DOCTOR: And how do you propose to do that? 
STEVEN: Yes, we're probably being searched for now by other friends of Chen. I mean Daxtar clearly knew about the disappearance of the taranium. 
DOCTOR: Yes, possibly. We filled in the story long before he gave himself away. 
BRET: I could try to bluff my way out. Well, it's worth a try. Well you haven't thought of a better idea. 
DOCTOR: Yes, possible. If you hadn't killed Daxtar of course there wouldn't be any need to. 
STEVEN: Of course there would. We wouldn't have been able to believe anything he said. 
DOCTOR: Well, there's not much point in standing here discussing it any longer. We shall have to try out your scheme, though I very much doubt of any sort of success that he might have. 
(They're interrupted as the door slides open.) 
BRET: Sara! 
SARA: Bret. 
BRET: You're just the person we need. 
SARA: I doubt that. Which of you has the taranium? 
(Bret steps in front of her gun) 
BRET: Run for it! 
(Steven pushes Sara off balance and he and the Doctor dash out of the door.) 
SARA: Give me the taranium! 
BRET: Sara, please listen. 
SARA: Give me the taranium! 
BRET: You too? 
(Bret goes for his gun.) 
(But Sara is quicker.) 
BRET: Sara! 
(Bret crumples to the floor. Crossing over to the body, Sara searches quickly and efficiently in his clothing. Finding nothing, she moves to the door and calls down the corridor.)

[Station corridor]

SARA: Borkar! Borkar, where are you? 
BORKAR: Yes? 
SARA: The two fugitives have escaped. All exits from the main block are to be guarded. 
BORKAR: That's Bret Vyon! 
SARA: Yes, he's dead. The others must be killed as well. They will be shot on sight, but aim for the head.

Episode 5 - Counter Plot
(from the 'Lost in Time' DVD)

[Station corridor]

(The Doctor and Steven make their escape through the maze of corridors. They stop to catch their breath outside a door marked with a large J.) 
DOCTOR: Where's Bret? 
STEVEN: He's right behind us, I think. He's probably dealing with that girl. 
DOCTOR: Oh, he's an irritating man. Come along. In here, quickly.

[Experiment room]

(The room they enter is stark and cold, with angular silvered panels curving round the walls. There are no windows and light seems to come up from the floor. In the centre is an oddly shaped glass capsule which is part of a larger mechanism. There's a flashing beacon on top and the device emits a regular pulsing tone.) 
STEVEN: Strange room. 
DOCTOR: Now I wonder what that is? 
STEVEN: There are mice inside. Funny sort of cage for mice. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it could be some kind of transmitter. 
STEVEN: I hope Bret finds us. 
DOCTOR: Well, I suggest you stay at that door, and if you hear any noise outside it's bound to be him. 
STEVEN: Yes, if it's moving fast enough. 
DOCTOR: Mice. Yes. Perhaps it's some kind of experiment.

[Experiment control room]

(Not far away two scientists are fussing over a bank of monitors) 
FROYN: Are they ready yet? 
RHYNMAL: Pressure count seems have risen again. 
FROYN: We have to go ahead anyway. All continuum readings are perfect. 
RHYNMAL: No, wait just for a moment. 
(Borker and a guard march into the room.) 
BORKER: Have you seen two strangers? 
FROYN: Get out. 
BORKER: We're looking for two men who were headed in this direction. 
FROYN: I don't care who you're looking for. We're in the middle of a highly complicated experiment. Now get out of here. 
RHYNMAL: All right now. All readings registering normal. 
FROYN: Good. Once again, will you get out of here. 
(Borker and the guard leave and the scientists return their attention to the experiment.) 
FROYN: Starting dissemination countdown in ten seconds from now.

[Experiment room]

STEVEN: I think I heard someone.

[Station corridor

(Sara creeps slowly along the corridor, her weapon drawn and ready. Reaching the door, she opens it and steps inside, watched by a guard) 
SARA [OC]: You will stay right where you are, both of you.

[Experiment room]

(Grimly Sara trains her gun on the Doctor and Steven.) 
SARA: I'll give you five seconds to hand over that taranium. 
DOCTOR: Let me speak, please. 
SARA: The taranium! 
(As Sara moves forward the walls of the room begin to glow and pulse around them. She freezes, her face contorted in agony. Steven and the Doctor are similarly affected as if every fibre in their bodies is being stretched and distorted. They're all screaming but the pulsing of the room drowns out the sounds of their pain. The light begins to flare brighter and faster.)

[Station corridor

(Borker tries to break into the room.) 
BORKER: It's sealed. Open up!

[Experiment control room]

(The scientists observe the progress of the experiment.) 
FROYN: High molecular absorption. Planet-side power falling. 
RHYNMAL: Projection seven alpha zero sero zeta. Instruments register perfect dissemination. 
FROYN: Good. Cutting computer control. 
RHYNMAL: Perfect. Absolutely perfect! 
FROYN: Just as I thought. 
RHYNMAL: Someone's opened the door! 
FROYN: Quick!

[Experiment room]

(At the threshold of the room, Borker pauses, perplexed. The room is totally empty. Unable to believe his own eyes he ventures inside to look around. The two scientists hurry in to join him.) 
FROYN: What do you think you're doing? 
BORKER: What's going on in this room? 
FROYN: We've been carrying out a molecular dissemination, and if you Space Security people would stop interfering we'd be able to get on a lot faster. 
RHYNMAL: Looks as though it was perfect. 
BORKER: You don't understand. 
FROYN: Have you touched anything in this room? 
BORKER: No! But there were three people in here. Where are they? 
(The Doctor, Steven and Sara are floating in a limbo. Their bodies twist and fade in and out of the void, losing cohesion and then reforming. Awareness comes fleetingly, sometimes inspiring awe, sometimes confusion, sometimes bringing agonising pain.) 
RHYNMAL: There can't have been. There were only my mice. I know, I set them here myself. 
BORKER: You've got to get them back. 
FROYN: Get them back? But we can't. 
BORKER: What do you mean, you can't. You must. 
FROYN: You don't seem to understand. Anyone or anything that was in this room at the time of the experiment is now being transmitted through space. 
RHYNMAL: Yes, my friend. They're many light years from Earth by now, moving towards a strange planet in a strange galaxy, the nature of which we can only guess at. 
(The planet surface bubbles and heaves, the strange vegetation wreathed in swirling mist.)

[Dalek Control centre]

BLACK: Has any message been received from Earth? 
DALEK 1: No. 
BLACK: Contract Mavic Chen and ask for a report. He should be bringing the taranium core by this time. 
DALEK 1: I obey.

[Experiment control room]

KARLTON: How long will it take till you know if your experiment is successful. 
FROYN: We don't know. Once the instruments reform on the planet Mira, they should start transmitting immediately. 
KARLTON: Would it not have been wiser to choose a nearer planet than Mira? 
FROYN: The whole point was the distance. We already know that certain small objects can be sent by cellular fragmentation over some short distances. 
KARLTON: And will these people arrive safely? 
FROYN: We don't know. We've never tried to transpose people in this way before. 
KARLTON: Why didn't you stop when Space Security came in. 
FROYN: The experiment had already started. We couldn't stop. 
KARLTON: You're a fool. Why didn't you make them stop? 
BORKER: There wasn't time. And we didn't know where these people were. 
KARLTON: Inform me as soon as you know that your mechanism has reached Mira. 
FROYN: Of course. 
(Karlton and Borker leave, watched contemptuously by Froyn. When they've gone Froyn rejoins Rhynmal at the dials.) 
FROYN: Is there no sign of anything yet? 
RHYNMAL: No, no. Ah! I think something's coming through. 
FROYN: Oh yes. 
(The glass capsule holding the mice has rematerialised in the middle of an inhospitable and gaseous swamp on Mira. The mice inside are alive and apparently unharmed by their journey across space. There is no sign of the Doctor or the others in the immediate vicinity.)

[Experiment room]

(Chen goes to see the dissemination room for himself, and is close to panic as he realises his plans have failed yet again.) 
KARLTON: The instruments reassembled successfully and the mice were alive. 
CHEN: You know that might mean nothing. You realise the Daleks might just assemble a force and conquer us, and there'll be nothing we can do. 
KARLTON: We still have the power. 
CHEN: Where? They're expecting me now to arrive with the taranium. 
KARLTON: Calm down. Mira is not far from Kembel, is it? 
CHEN: It's nearer Kembel then Earth is. But what help is that? 
KARLTON: Tell the Daleks that you trapped the fugitives in the cellular projector and sent them to Mira on purpose. 
CHEN: You're mad. 
KARLTON: Am I? It was a safety measure. Unwelcome attention was being paid to the fugitives so you send them to Mira on purpose. 
CHEN: Ah. We could attribute it to a too-efficient security system. It'll show conclusively that we're completely allied to the Daleks. They would trust us the more. 
KARLTON: Exactly. 
CHEN: Wait. How do we know that the taranium wasn't destroyed on the way. 
KARLTON: We don't. 
CHEN: But 
KARLTON: No buts. The only reason that you as Guardian of the Solar System were admitted to the Universal Council was because of our superior knowledge of mineralogy. Without us they cannot get taranium. 
CHEN: Without me, their plan cannot completely work. Without me, they are but nothing. Nothing! When I am next to the Daleks, only they stand between me and the highest position in the universe. Then will be the time for me to take complete control! 
(Chen has completely regained his fanatical power lust, and stands arms outstretched savouring his vision. Turning back to Karlton he catches his subordinate staring at him which an expression that could be horrified disbelief or deepest admiration. Chen lowers his arms.) 
CHEN: You are a fortunate man, Karlton. You will have a high place in galactic history. 
(Chen strides from the room. Karlton watches him go.) 
KARLTON: The highest, next to you.

[Planet Mira]

(Some distance from where the mice arrived on Mira, The Doctor lies on the ground. Slowly the old man awakens and sits up, patting himself tentatively to reassure himself that he's still all in one piece. Finally satisfied, he gets to his feet, feeling stronger with every passing moment. He takes the taranium core from his pocket and checks that nothing has happened to it. Thankfully the core appears undamaged. The Doctor finally appears to notice his surroundings for the first time. Intrigued, he ponders how he might have been transported to this strange place.) 
DOCTOR: The mice couldn't have done that. 
(A little way off, Sara lies unconscious. A lock of her hair twists in the enveloping mist, seemingly of its own accord. Then her arms appear to move by themselves, lifting into the air and dropping back down again. Close by, Steven wakes up. As soon as he's steady on his feet he goes over to where Sara is lying. He takes away her gun then tries to bring her round. The Doctor, now quite recovered, examines the capsule containing the mice.)
DOCTOR: How extraordinary. Most extraordinary. Steven! Steven, my boy, where are you? 
(He moves on, looking for the others. He's quite unaware that he's being followed. A vast invisible creature leaves clawed four-toed prints in the ground as it tracks the Doctor through the forest.) 
STEVEN: Doctor! Doctor. 
DOCTOR: All right, all right, all right. 
STEVEN: What's going on? Where are we? What on Earth's happened? 
DOCTOR: Calm down, calm down. I don't know where we are. We're safe and sound, that's the main thing. Oh, I suppose she had to come along. 
STEVEN: Yes, but what's happened? All I know is she is about to shoot us and there was this fantastic noise. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm very glad you took that gun away from her. Is she all right? 
STEVEN: She hasn't come round yet. 
(Sara groans) 
DOCTOR: Pull yourself together, madam. I want to ask you a few questions. 
SARA: What? 
DOCTOR: Take a good look round, dear boy, and find a place to hide. We've a lot to sort out. 
SARA: You! The traitors! I must 
DOCTOR: Quiet. Do as you're told. Get on your feet. You're lucky to be alive. Now, you come with me, but don't try any tricks. Come along. 
(Sara and the Doctor head off after Steven.

[Dalek Control centre]

DALEK 1: The pursuit ship reports that they have landed on the planet Mira. 
BLACK: Have they located the fugitives? 
DALEK 1: The detectors register strong readings. 
BLACK: When the fugitives are captured, report at once. 
DALEK 1: I obey.

[Planet Mira]

(The Doctor, Steven and Sara have taken shelter in a cave.) 
STEVEN: Feeling better? 
SARA: I'll feel a lot better when we get out of this place. 
DOCTOR: Getting away from this place sets quite a problem. 
SARA: Where are we? 
DOCTOR: At the moment, I haven't the faintest idea. 
SARA: Well, how did we get here? 
DOCTOR: Cellular dissemination. 
SARA: Cellular what? 
DOCTOR: To put it in lay language, cellular dissemination means our bodies were broken up by some process or other, shot through into the fourth dimension, and at a given point, reassembled again on this planet. 
STEVEN: That's fantastic. 
SARA: Impossible. 
DOCTOR: Fantastic it may be my boy, but impossible, no, because precisely that is what has happened. 
STEVEN: Yes, but Doctor what about that transmitter thing? You know, the one with the mice in it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that followed along too and I believe it's sending messages back to Earth. Now that would mean that Mavic Chen will know precisely where we are. Therefore the Daleks will attack once again. 
(The Dalek patrol has discovered the capsule containing the mice. One Dalek has a dial device in it's plunger.) 
DALEK 1: Detector indicates being at close range. 
DALEK 2: An alien device. There are small white creatures inside. They may be hostile. 
DALEK 1: It is sending out signals. 
DALEK 2: It may belong to the fugitives and register our presence here. 
DALEK 1: Destroy it. 
(So they exterminate the mice and the beacon.) 
DALEK 1: Detector still registers being is very close. 
DALEK 2: I can see nothing. 
DALEK 1: There is a being near us. Fire at any movement. 
(The bushes move, they fire and there is a roar of pain.) 
DALEK 2: The beings appear to be invisible. We must continue the search for the fugitives. Keep constant detector readings. Open fire when it registers close proximity. 
DALEK 1: I obey.

[Experiment control room]

FROYN: I don't understand it. We were getting such powerful signals. Now we're getting absolutely nothing. 
KARLTON: A technical fault? 
FROYN: It couldn't be, not just like that. 
RHYNMAL: These criminals must have damaged it. 
FROYN: Why didn't they do it when they first arrived? 
KARLTON: Perhaps they have only just found it. You are certain that there are no natural beings on Mira? 
FROYN: Not to our knowledge. Our probes have never shown any. 
RHYNMAL: That's why we sent the mice. I was hoping that they might perhaps... Oh dear. Perhaps we should send some more mice? 
KARLTON: No. Send nothing further to Mira. Inform me as soon as you regain any form of contact. In the meantime, send no further matter to that planet.

[Planet Mira]

(The Doctor is investigating the area outside the cave. There's movement in the trees and he hears strange noises, a low grumbling roar coming closer. The Doctor lashes out in the general direction of the movement with defends his walking stick and is surprised when it strikes something solid he cannot see. He swings at the invisible shape again and again until it retreats.) 
DOCTOR: I might have know it. Visians. The planet Mira. 
(In the cave, Steven is arguing with Sara.) 
STEVEN: But he was the one person who could have warned Earth. 
SARA: So you say. 
STEVEN: You killed Bret! You just shot him down. 
SARA: He was a traitor. Between the three of you, you had stolen the taranium, the most valuable mineral in the universe. It was needed desperately to spread the peace which was founded in the solar system, to reach the whole galaxy. 
STEVEN: What was the taranium going to do? 
SARA: How should I know? I had my orders. 
STEVEN: Your orders. And even though it meant killing one of your own people, you obeyed them blindly, without question? 
SARA: One does not question the orders of the Guardian. 
STEVEN: You didn't stop to think how it came to happen that a space security agent, one of your own people, was a traitor? 
SARA: No! 
STEVEN: You didn't give Bret a chance, did you. You couldn't question Chen and you wouldn't question Bret. 
SARA: Look, what do you want me to say? That I believe your fantastic story? 
STEVEN: It's true. 
SARA: It mustn't be. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid it is, my dear. 
STEVEN: But Bret had to be killed. 
SARA: Shut up! Bret Vyon was my brother. 
(Distraught, Sara rushes from the cave.) 
DOCTOR: Leave her, my boy. There's nothing we can do. She finally believes us. 
(Sara runs back in) 
SARA: Something touched me. 
(Steven gets out the gun) 
STEVEN: Doc! 
DOCTOR: Steven! Listen to me, both of you. This is the planet Mira, and the only beings on here are the Visians. We can't see them, but they're very vicious. We must try to get away from here as soon as possible. 
SARA: But how? 
DOCTOR: I don't know yet. 
(Steven goes to the cave mouth. He can hear a low grumbling roar. Bushes are trampled as the invisible creatures come closer.) 
STEVEN: Is that them? 
DOCTOR: Yes, and it appears we're trapped!

[Mavic Chen's office]

KARLTON: I am certain that the Daleks have already reached Mira. 
CHEN: That means I must return to Kembel at once. 
KARLTON: Of course. Everything is arranged. 
CHEN: Good. It looks as though the Daleks have believed my story. I must be there before the taranium's bought back. 
KARLTON: If it is. 
CHEN: Wait till you hear from me, then take your party to Venus. Whatever happens, we shall outwit the Daleks. We should be able to destroy Kembel with help from the rest of the solar system. 
KARLTON: But that will only mean mastery of this galaxy. 
CHEN: But a start, Karlton, a start.

[Planet Mira]

(The Visians have not yet moved in to attack.) 
DOCTOR: I don't think they've quite fathomed us out. 
STEVEN: Yes, but when we beat our way through, we've got to stick together. 
DOCTOR: And you remember, my boy, aim high. These Visians are eight feet tall. 
(A squad of Daleks approaches from behind the Visians and begins to fire on them. The invisible creatures are quickly killed or driven away.) 
STEVEN: Daleks! 
SARA: You're right, Doctor. They've come. 
DALEK 1: You are surrounded. You will come with us. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid, my friends, the Daleks have won.

Episode 6 - Coronas of the Sun

[Planet Mira]

(The Doctor leads the others out of the cave.) 
DALEK: You will hand over the taranium core. 
DOCTOR: If I do, what guarantee is there that you won't fire your guns afterwards? 
DALEK: There is no guarantee. 
DALEK 2: Seismic detector shows that the object that he is carrying is the taranium! 
DALEK: You will surrender it! 
SARA: He will not! 
DALEK: Silence! You will not speak! 
DOCTOR: You dare not fire, because of this taranium! To end this stalemate, may I suggest 
DALEK: There will no more discussion. The core is to be handed over. Re-form line. Prepare to exterminate them. What is that noise?? 
DALEK 2: The invisible creatures are attacking in force! 
DALEK: Patrol alert! Patrol Alert! Annihilate them! Annihilate them! 
(The Visians surge forward to attack from all sides, bellowing with fury as they smash at the Daleks with rocks and sticks. The Daleks swing round to counterattack blasting indiscriminately at their invisible assailants. Those creatures caught in the cross-fire become briefly visible before they die. Despite the Visians spirited attack, the Daleks sustain little damage. Whilst the battle rages on, the Doctor and his companions seize the opportunity to make their escape.) 
DOCTOR: There's a good boy, keep going! 
(A lone Dalek cut off from the rest of the patrol becomes the focus of the Visian fury. The Dalek is helpless as the unseen creatures shove it into a bubbling mud pool where it sinks slowly under the surface. Ultimately however, the battle is short and the result predictable. Forming a tight protective circle the remaining Daleks continue to fire in all directions until they have decimated their attackers. Very soon, the few surviving Visians flee back into the forest.) 
DALEK 2: The invisible creatures have been exterminated. 
DALEK: Search for the fugitives. They must not escape. 
DALEKS: We obey!

[Dalek Control centre]

DALEK: Communication received from the planet Mira. 
BLACK: Are the fugitives still evading capture? 
DALEK: Yes. There has been no further contact. Reinforcements can be dispatched. 
BLACK: Our force already there is sufficient for the task. Contact them and order that the taranium is to be recovered. Failure will not be tolerated!

[Outside the Dalek pursuit ship]

(The Doctor, Steven and Sara have discovered the Dalek pursuit ship in the swamp, and make plans to steal it and escape from Mira. They stand some distance from the ship, staring up at the solitary Dalek stationed at the top of the loading ramp.) 
DOCTOR: There's only one guard. Now you know what to do? 
STEVEN: Yes. 
(The Doctor moves away.) 
SARA: It will never work. 
STEVEN: It will. It's got to. 
SARA: The other Daleks will be back here before he can get started. 
STEVEN: Why should they? They're out looking for us, they won't expect us to come back here. 
SARA: Look, they're not complete fools. They know we got to get off Mira and that their ship is our only chance. 
STEVEN: Don't worry. Like most of the Doctor's plans, this one's simple. It won't take long. 
SARA: Well, why doesn't he get started then? 
STEVEN: Give him time. He's got to get round there. Look, you must learn to trust him. He's had dealing with the Daleks before. 
SARA: I have no choice. Let's hope you're right. 
STEVEN: He should be in position by now. Come on. 
(As Steven and Sara edge closer to the ship, the Doctor walks from the trees into full view of the Dalek guard.) 
GUARD: Remain where you are. 
DOCTOR: I certainly will. I've come to give myself up. 
GUARD: Do you have the taranium? 
DOCTOR: I have. I realise of course that I am no match for the Daleks, so if I hand it over, will you help me and my friends to get away from this planet? 
GUARD: Where are the others? 
DOCTOR: Oh, they will come when I call them. The taranium. Shall I give it to you or would you prefer me to hand it to you in your ship? 
GUARD: You will wait there until the patrol returns. The others are to join you. If you try to escape you 
DOCTOR: Escape! Oh, my tin friend. Never. You mustn't forget that I came here and surrendered of my own free will. 
(Steven leaps forward and grinds a handfull of mud into the Dale's eye-stalk.) 
GUARD: Help, help, loss of vision, loss of vision, am under attack! Am under attack! Patrol alert! Patrol alert! 
(The Doctor and the others dash up the ramp into the Dalek ship. The guard fires blindly, nearly wiping out the returning Dalek patrol.) 
DALEK: Cease firing before we sustain damage. Report! 
GUARD: The fugitives boarded the Pursuit ship!

[Dalek Pursuit ship]

DALEK [OC]: Alert all patrols. Alert all patrols. 
SARA: Can you work it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh don't worry my dear. I'm quite accustomed to this Dalek technique. Close the hatches please. 
DALEK [OC]: Surround pursuit ship. Surround pursuit ship. 
DALEKS [OC]: We obey. 
SARA: Doors are not closing! Vacuum-lock reading 2.24. 
DOCTOR: The power build-up is far too slow. Feed in that extra energy. 
SARA: 3.82 rising. 
DALEK [OC]: Avoid firing in area of taranium. 
DOCTOR: It should activate at five, zero, zero. 
DALEKS [OC]: We obey. 
STEVEN: They're forming up to attack. 
SARA: 4.32 still rising. 
DALEK [OC]: Form up, attack formation. 
DOCTOR: Splendid! 
DALEK 2 [OC]: Prepare to board the ship! 
DALEK [OC]: Exterminate them! Exterminate them! 
STEVEN: That was close. It was too close! 
DOCTOR: Autogiro. Giro dynamo. 
SARA: Coding nine, two. Red, blue, blue. 
DOCTOR: Discharge. 
SARA: Coding one, zero, zero. All blue reading. Take off now! 
DOCTOR: Splendid! Hold tight! 
(The ship blasts off)

[Dalek Control centre]

BLACK: Mavic Chen, you have failed in your task. 
CHEN: Failed? Is this my greeting? I agree that my mission was to return to Earth and recover the taranium. This I have not done. 
BLACK: Failure will not be tolerated! 
CHEN: But I did notify you of the fugitives' whereabouts. The planet Mira. There the vital core can be taken from them without suspicion. Their presence on Earth was a constant danger! At anytime they could have contacted forces unsympathetic to our plans. 
BLACK: You make your incompetence sound like an achievement. 
CHEN: Incompetence now, is it? You forget that the original blunder was not of my doing. I journeyed to and from Earth to correct a failing your security force should have dealt with. The core was stolen from here. My actions have brought about a situation which will allow you to recover the missing taranium easily and simply. If that is a failure, then I have failed. 
BLACK: Report. 
DALEK: The fugitives have stolen our pursuit ship and left the planet Mira. 
BLACK: Stolen! Left the planet Mira! Is their course being computed? 
DALEK: It is. 
BLACK: What news of our force? 
DALEK: They are stranded on the planet and under constant attack from the invisible creatures that inhibit it. 
BLACK: Dispatch a rescue ship to their aid. They will be dealt with on their return. Meanwhile, I will personally supervise recovery of the core. 
DALEK: I obey. 
CHEN: And you had the audacity to accuse me, Mavic Chen, of incompetence. 
BLACK: It is 
CHEN: A Dalek ship stolen? 
BLACK: It is not 
CHEN: Really? 
BLACK: It is not an emergency! 
CHEN: No. More like a catastrophe! 
BLACK: They may believe that they have successfully escaped from us, but we, the Daleks, are still in command!

[Dalek Pursuit ship]

(The Doctor makes a full examination of the glowing taranium core, taking measurements and writing notes.) 
STEVEN: Will it work, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: No, course it won't, my dear boy. That's the whole point. 
STEVEN: I mean your plan. 
DOCTOR: No, we shall have to make a copy. A copy so exact that we can deceive the Daleks. They'll still want this taranium back, you know. They won't rest until they get it. 
STEVEN: Yes, but suppose 
SARA: There isn't time to suppose. I'm sure the Doctor can copy it well enough. 
DOCTOR: Yes, thank you, thank you my dear, thank you. I'll have a good try. And I think that will give us sufficient breathing space. What's that? 
SARA: We're changing course. We're moving away on a selected route. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious, we're on the course for the planet Kembel. You know, I'm very much afraid that we're under the Dalek influence. 
(Steven notices an auxiliary unit attached to the main controls.) 
STEVEN: It's obviously this thats causing the damage. 
(Cheerfully, Steven smashes the automatic control unit.) 
STEVEN: Ah, that settles that. 
SARA: Isn't that a rather a drastic way of dealing with things? 
STEVEN: Sara, the technology of my age may be hundreds of years behind yours and the Doctor's, but there are still some things I can handle. 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course there is, my dear boy. Of course there is. Come along, young lady, let's get on with our mineral while we still have the time.

[Dalek Control centre]

DALEK: Pursuit ship has broken free of our control. 
BLACK: Activate magnetised beam. 
DALEK: Magnetised beam activated. 
CHEN: I sincerely hope there's not been any further bungling? 
BLACK: We have temporarily lost control, but once the magnetised beam reaches them it will pull them to Kembel, where they will be exterminated! 
CHEN: After we have the core of the Time Destructor in our possession, I trust. 
BLACK: Of course! Of course!

[Dalek Pursuit ship]

(Unaware of the new threat, The Doctor concentrates on replicating the taranium, and is pleased with his progress.) 
DOCTOR: Yes I think so, yes, yes, there. That's a good copy, although I say it myself. 
SARA: Yes, but there's still the problem of charging it. The Daleks will know immediately that it isn't the real taranium. 
DOCTOR: I appreciate that young lady, but this is the right balance and the right weight. 
STEVEN: We're still on our own course. The Daleks haven't attempted to divert us yet. 
DOCTOR: Oh good, good, good. Well you keep watching, there's a good fellow. 
STEVEN: Hey! 
DOCTOR: No, I should try that one. 
(Steven examines the copy with admiration. The one thing that gives it away is that it's not glowing with energy like the real mineral.) 
STEVEN: This is excellent. 
DOCTOR: Isn't it. 
STEVEN: How do you propose to activate it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, we're working on that. Yes, we're working on it. 
STEVEN: We could use the gravity force from the ship's power centre. I mean, there's an outlet here. 
SARA: What? 
STEVEN: What's wrong with that? 
DOCTOR: Too primitive, my boy. Too primitive and far too dangerous. 
SARA: Gravity force as a source of energy was abandoned, centuries ago. 
STEVEN: We were still using it. 
SARA: Oh yes, and the Romans used treadmills. 
(Sara follows the Doctor to search for a suitable power source to safely activate the fake taranium. Steven continues to muse on his own theoretical solution.) 
STEVEN: I still think G-force would do the trick. 
SARA: We're changing course again. 
DOCTOR: Back to the planet Kembel but what? You know, it appears that we're being affected by magnetization. We're been held in a very strong beam. 
SARA: That will take us right back to the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Let's try and break it, child. Come along. 
(While the Doctor and Sara do their best to escape from the beam, Steven decides to take matters into his own hands and attempt to energise the fake taranium using G-force.) 
STEVEN: Now we'll see about those treadmills. 
(Wiring the copy into the G-force outlet, Steven throws the switch. Argh! Steven collapses instantly.) 
SARA: Steven! 
DOCTOR: My dear boy! What happened? What's happened? He's still breathing. 
SARA: The fool! He's tried his experiment with G-force and reliance power. 
DOCTOR: He's still alive, and lucky at that. 
SARA: But it worked! Look, Doctor. It's just like the real taranium. 
DOCTOR: Oh, isn't that wonderful. That's wonderful! Steven's theory has proved successful. But what about the poor boy?

[Dalek Control centre]

DALEK: Dalek pursuit ship has entered the atmosphere. 
DALEK 2: Reducing speed. Ten degrees of light. Eight. Six. 
CHEN: It appears that you have at last succeeded in getting the taranium back. 
BLACK: Of course. And we shall deal with these fugitives as with all those who oppose us. 
CHEN: No! 
BLACK: Do you challenge us? 
CHEN: Of course not. But might it not be advisable for me to return them to Earth for trial? 
BLACK: Why? 
CHEN: They will be tried and found guilty as traitors to the Solar System. After all, the woman is from Earth. 
BLACK: The Daleks will deal with them, there is no need for the delay in their extermination. 
CHEN: Some people on Earth know that our traitors were transposed to Mira. If they disappear for good, those people will be curious and ask what happened to them. It's possible that they might find out that the Daleks executed them. Then your plans could be hindered. 
BLACK: It is essential that you do not allow your Earth people to become curious. 
CHEN: Human curiosity is something I can have no control over. 
BLACK: You must forestall their questions until it is too late. 
CHEN: Too late? 
BLACK: Yes! We will have conquered the Solar System before our presence here is discovered. 
CHEN: It is possible. 
BLACK: Once we have the taranium, there is nothing to stop us! 
CHEN: Very well. I leave their fate to you. 
BLACK: The Dalek reception force should now be in position at the specified landing point. 
CHEN: Yes, they should. And I think it's about time we left to join them, don't you?

[Dalek Pursuit ship]

(The Dalek ship nears Kembel. The Doctor and Sara are powerless to intervene.) 
SARA: Height and speed reducing. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we should be landing in about five minutes. 
SARA: I'll see how Steven is. 
(Propped in a corner, Steven seems unable to move but his eyes are open.) 
SARA: I think the effect's wearing off. 
DOCTOR: No, my dear. He's adapting to it. Can you talk, my boy? No. He's still under the influence of that force field. Nothing further will happen to you. Now don't worry. 
(The Doctor moves to touch Steven but draws his hand back as if shocked.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, nothing further going to happen to him but I must confess I I have no cure for that condition. 
SARA: He's enclosed in a forcefield. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I'm afraid so. Sara, bring me that fake taranium. Yes, yes, yes. Now, listen to me, Steven. Try and understand. This is very important so you must trust me. You do understand? Just try and indicate. 
(With a struggle, Steven manages to blink his eyes.)

[Kembel landing pad]

BLACK: Pursuit ship is landing at precise point calculated. 
CHEN: Well it appears that everything's going according to plan. 
BLACK: The taranium will be recovered. 
CHEN: I hope you are right. 
BLACK: This time, there will no error. 
(The pursuit ship lands.)

[Dalek Pursuit ship]

DOCTOR: We're here. Now we've got to face the Daleks. Open the doors, please. Steven will lead the way. This way, Steven. 
(Blank-faced, Steven walks ahead carrying the box containing the fake taranium core.) 
SARA: But it won't, it can't work! 
DOCTOR: It's our only chance, my dear. And remember, I will do all the talking. 
(They follow Steven out of the ship.)

[Kembel landing pad]

(Chen watches as Steven comes down the ramp and instantly recognises the box he is carrying.) 
CHEN: The taranium! I would suggest that you give that to me, young man. 
DOCTOR: No. And remember, you cannot fire because of the taranium. You'd have another fifty years work. 
CHEN: Possibly, But you are still in no position to bargain. 
DOCTOR: I will hand over the taranium outside my ship, the Tardis. 
CHEN: You heard the condition. 
BLACK: It is not acceptable. 
CHEN: You heard what the Dalek Supreme said. 
DOCTOR: Outside my ship, the Tardis, or nowhere! 
CHEN: He seems determined. Does it really matter? 
BLACK: Very well. In front of his ship. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Steven? 
(Steven sets off into the jungle and the Doctor follows with Sara. Chen catches sight of his former agent.) 
CHEN: Kingdom. 
SARA: Traitor. 
(The Guardian is taken aback by Sara's venom and follows behind with the Daleks.)

[Outside the Tardis]

(After a tense trek through the jungle they reach the Tardis. The Doctor gives Sara the key.) 
DOCTOR: Sara, open the door please. The young man will give you the taranium when the girl and I are safely inside my ship, the Tardis. 
BLACK: Very well. 
CHEN: Making sure of your escape, eh, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Remember to do exactly as I say, Steven. I will give you further instructions from inside my Tardis. 
(Steven nods. The Doctor and Sara go inside.) 
DOCTOR [OC]: Steven, hand the box over to Chen. Then come inside the Tardis. 
(Steven offers the box to Chen who snatches it from him. Chen is delighted when he opens the box and has to shield his eyes against the fierce glow.) 
CHEN: This is it! The core of the Time Destructor! 
(The Daleks turn on Steven.) 
BLACK: Exterminate him! 
(As the Daleks open fire Steven dives with inside the Tardis with the rays bouncing off his forcefield, and the door slams shut. The Tardis dematerialises.) 
BLACK: The ray guns did not take effect! 
DALEK: All were operated at full power. 
BLACK: No human being can withstand their fire. 
CHEN: What happened is unimportant! We have the taranium! The invasion can go ahead. The Universe will be ours!

[Tardis]

(Steven is recovering quickly.) 
SARA: Are you sure you're all right? 
STEVEN: Yes, more or less. 
DOCTOR: The Dalek guns must have destroyed that forcefield completely. It's a good thing they didn't fire a second time. 
STEVEN: I don't really know what happened. 
SARA: You were enclosed in a field of Gravity force and reliance power. 
DOCTOR: You had a shield round you. You know, similar to that one that protects the Tardis. Oh, that's remind me. Where is that genuine Taranium? 
SARA: Over here. 
STEVEN: It's a pity I blacked out. I mean, if I knew the ratio readings, we could use the same force again to protect us from the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Certainly not! What you did was very dangerous and extremely stupid. 
STEVEN: Oh, come off it. It worked. 
DOCTOR: One more experiment like that and you really will be dead. 
STEVEN: Oh, nonsense. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, you listen to me, young man. I warned you it was dangerous before you tried it. You might have killed yourself and blown up the space-ship. Then, where would we all be? 
STEVEN: I know where I'll be. I don't know about you lot. 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, now don't be cheeky. 
STEVEN: Look, if it haven't been for me, how would you have charged the taranium and carried out the hand-over? I think we should experiment further. 
DOCTOR: I don't care what you think. We're not going to repeat it. Why do you think science turned down your discovery? Because it isn't safe. So perhaps in future you'll pay attention to what I say and remember that I happen to be the leader of this expedition and I don't want to keep on repeating myself. 
STEVEN: But Doctor 
DOCTOR: Never mind the buts! If you don't like it, you can get off! 
STEVEN: All right Doctor, I promise that I won't experiment with it any further. 
DOCTOR: I hope not. 
SARA: Something's gone wrong. 
DOCTOR: What's the matter? 
SARA: It's stopped going up and down. 
STEVEN: That's means that we've landed. 
DOCTOR: Oh, tut, tut, tut. That scanner's not working. 
SARA: Can you mend it? 
DOCTOR: Yes I shall have to repair it, of course, yes, yes, but that means checking up on the whole circuit. 
STEVEN: Well, let's get on with it. 
DOCTOR: Ah, ah, ah. Don't you dare touch that. 
STEVEN: Why not? 
DOCTOR: Well, just look at those dials. Look! Look here, Sara. You see those dials, now you know what that means? If either of you went outside, it would be extremely dangerous. The whole atmosphere is entirely poisonous.

Episode 7 - The Feast of Steven 
(Broadcast on December 25th 1965)

[Street]

(In fact, the poisonous atmosphere is no more than 1960's urban pollution.) 
SERGEANT: What in the name of? 
(The Tardis looks quite at home outside a Police Station somewhere in the North of England.) 
SERGEANT: Who put that there? 
(Returning to the station in their car, two police officers are full of seasonal cheer, and singing carols.) 
CONSTABLE 1 (the driver) + CONSTABLE 2 (the passenger): When a poor man came inside, gathering winter fuel. 
CONSTABLE 1: Here, I reckon we could charm the birds of the trees. 
CONSTABLE 2: I'd settle for some from the coffee bars. 
CONSTABLE 1: Here, what about 'While Shepherds Watch'? do you think they'd appreciate that? 
CONSTABLE 2: Hey, now here's the Sergeant. Come on. 
CONSTABLE 1: Oh. 
CONSTABLE 2: Hello Sergeant, what you doing out here? 
SERGEANT: Hey, come and have a look at this. 
(They gather around the Tardis.) 
CONSTABLE 2: Well, where did that come from? 
SERGEANT: You tell me. 
CONSTABLE 1: Oh, perhaps someone sent it to the Inspector as a Christmas box. 
SERGEANT: And perhaps you'll both just stay out here and watch it. 
CONSTABLE 1: Why? Do you think it's going to fly away? 
SERGEANT: Just you stay there and keep an eye on it, right?

[Tardis]

STEVEN: And just why, if it isn't safe for us, is it safe for you? 
DOCTOR: Will neither of you understand? 
SARA: For heaven's sake, let's go and fix the scanner! 
DOCTOR: No! Where you come from, in both places, the air is pure. Outside there is the worst kind of pollution I've met in years. 
STEVEN: Right, then you shouldn't go out there, either. 
DOCTOR: Ah, my dear boy, I'm used to all sorts of atmospheres. It won't affect me. I shall have to go out and do the repairing myself. 
SARA: But suppose something happens to you? 
DOCTOR: Then, and only then, can you come out. But you must be very, very careful. 
STEVEN: And how are we supposed to know that something has happened to you? 
DOCTOR: My dear young man, just give me a few minutes and if all is well, I shall be back inside again to tell you. 
STEVEN: And if not, we come out and find you? I seem to have been through all this before. 
DOCTOR: Now, look here, my boy. You will do as you're told! Now you just open the doors and remember to close them after I've gone. 
STEVEN: Yes, sir!

[Street]

(The Doctor comes face to face with a policeman on guard outside.) 
CONSTABLE 1: Good evening. 
DOCTOR: Good evening. 
CONSTABLE 1: Hey, you! 
(The Doctor ducks back inside the Tardis.) 
CONSTABLE 2: What's up? 
CONSTABLE 1: See that? 
CONSTABLE 2: See what? 
CONSTABLE 1: That then. 
CONSTABLE 2: What when? 
CONSTABLE 1: That door, 
CONSTABLE 2: That door? 
CONSTABLE 1: It opened, 
CONSTABLE 2: Did it? 
CONSTABLE 1: There's a bloke in there. 
CONSTABLE 2: Oh, aye? 
CONSTABLE 1: A bloke with long white hair. I just saw him. 
CONSTABLE 2: Did you? 
CONSTABLE 1: Aye. 
CONSTABLE 2: It's locked. 
CONSTABLE 1: But I just saw him. 
CONSTABLE 2: Oh, aye.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: No, police. P-O-L-I-C-E. 
SARA: Oh, I see. We've landed on your own planet. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, child. We're back on Earth. 
SARA: But that's what's written outside the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Oh, never mind. Never mind. I shall have to go outside and try and distract them. Meanwhile, you can stay here for a while then come out and do the scanner. 
STEVEN: Yes. But, you said the air out there was so bad, that if we went out 
DOCTOR: Never mind what I said, my dear boy. Do as you're told. Now open the doors and remember to shut them after I've gone. 
STEVEN: Yes, sir.

[Street]

(The Doctor is about to walk away when two voices stop him in his tracks.) 
DOCTOR: Hmm. 
CONSTABLE 2: It wouldn't be Father Christmas, would it? 
CONSTABLE 1: All right lad. It's a fair cop. 
(The Doctor is escorted into the police station.)

[Police station]

(The desk sergeant is dealing with another visitor.) 
SERGEANT: All right. What can I do for you? 
MAN: I've got a complaint. 
SERGEANT: Well, the doctor's just around the corner. 
MAN: No, no, no, no. I, I mean, I want to make a complaint. 
SERGEANT: Oh, I see. Well, let's have your name then. 
MAN: They keep moving me house. 
SERGEANT: Moving your what? 
MAN: House! 
SERGEANT: They keep moving your house? 
MAN: Yes. Me greenhouse. It's the rebels. 
SERGEANT: The rebels? 
CONSTABLE 1: Anyone in CID.? 
SERGEANT: Oh, straight through. 
CONSTABLE 1: Good. Come on. 
DOCTOR: (to the man) Haven't I seen your face before somewhere? 
MAN: Where? 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course, I remember now, yes. The marketplace at Jaffa. 
MAN: Jaffa? The young chap said I should come to see you about. 
SERGEANT: Do what? 
MAN: About me greenhouse. It's the rebels. 
(Having seen the Doctor taken away, Steven emerges from the Tardis intent on trying to rescue him, but he's forced to hide behind the nearby police car when one of the officers reappears.)

[Inspector's office]

(The Doctor is being questioned by CID.) 
INSPECTOR: I've heard of a housing shortage, but I never knew it was so bad you'd have to spend Christmas in a Police Box. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Christmas. Oh, is it? Of course. Yes, yes, yes, yes. That accounts for the holly in the hall. 
INSPECTOR: You mean you didn't know? 
DOCTOR: Well, of course I didn't know. I travel about too much. 
INSPECTOR: And why is that? 
DOCTOR: Well, a quest of knowledge, dear boy. I mean, you have a saying in this country, have you not? Travel broadens the mind? 
INSPECTOR: You mean you're not English? 
DOCTOR: No. Gracious, no. 
INSPECTOR: Scottish? 
DOCTOR: No. 
INSPECTOR: Are you Welsh, then? 
DOCTOR: Oh, you'll have to think in a far bigger way than that. Your ideas are too narrow, too small, too crippled. 
INSPECTOR: All right, all right. What are you then? 
DOCTOR: Well, I suppose you might say that I am a citizen of the universe, and a gentleman to boot. 
CONSTABLE 2: He's having us on a bit, isn't he sir? 
INSPECTOR: Now, look lad. 
(Outside, the police officer moves and Steven comes out of hiding. He seems unsure how best to proceed, but then spots the tunic of a police uniform on the back seat of the car. Making sure no one is about, Steven opens the car door.)

[Police station]

MAN: And now they've been and gone and moved it again. 
SERGEANT: Oh, where to this time? 
MAN: I don't know. That's why I came to see you. The young fellow. 
SERGEANT: You sure it's not out there along beside the, oh, here, just a minute. 
(Steven comes in, now dressed in police uniform.) 
STEVEN: Er, excuse me. 
SERGEANT: Ah. You must be the new bloke from G Division, come to help us out. 
STEVEN: I, I beg your pardon? 
SERGEANT: I said you must be the new bloke from G Division. 
STEVEN: Must I? Oh! Oh, yes. Yes, that's right. Yes, I've called about the old man. 
SERGEANT: Old man? What old man? 
STEVEN: Well, he was brought in here a minute ago. 
SERGEANT: Oh, he's with the CID. You'd better wait until they've finished with him. 
STEVEN: Fine, yeah. Well, I've got to get to him. 
SERGEANT: Well, you'll have to wait, lad. He'll be out here again soon. Now wait over there. 
MAN: Now what about my greenhouse? 
SERGEANT: Oh, yes. Now where was it you said? 
MAN: Well, for a start, it's not in me garden.

[Inspector's office]

DOCTOR: I don't think you really understand. That object in the yard out there isn't really a police box. 
INSPECTOR: No, no, of course it's not. It's the new Brighton ferry. 
DOCTOR: It is a machine for investigating Time and Relative Dimensions in Space. 
(The officers draw discreetly to one side.) 
CONSTABLE 2: He's a nutter. 
INSPECTOR: He's straight from a funny-farm, if you ask me. 
DOCTOR: Do I take it that you gentlemen are imputing that I am mentally deranged? 
CONSTABLE 2: I told you. He's a nutter. 
INSPECTOR: Was he the only bloke in the box? 
CONSTABLE 1: Well how should I know? 
INSPECTOR: Well didn't you check? There might be a whole army of them in there, living like gypsies in one of Her Majesty's police telephone boxes. 
CONSTABLE 2: And just how many people do you expect to come out of one box?

[Street]

(Sara comes out of the Tardis, considering how she might climb up to fix the scanner eye, and rather concerned that the Doctor and Steven have not yet returned. SARA: Where have they got to? 
CONSTABLE 1: Hello, Hello. What are you doing hanging around here on Christmas Day? 
SARA: Nothing. 
CONSTABLE 1: Surprised to see a police box here, I suppose? 
SARA: Oh! You think it's yours? 
CONSTABLE 1: Well, not mine exactly. Well, let's say it belongs to us, eh? So why don't you leave it where it is and just move along, eh? 
SARA: I've got to fix it. 
CONSTABLE 1: Fix what? 
SARA: The scanner eye. 
CONSTABLE 1: The scanner eye? 
SARA: Yes. 
CONSTABLE 1: Oh, you do? 
SARA: Yes. 
CONSTABLE 1: Oh. Well, we usually get the jokers around here at Christmas time, but we have to be lenient. So, just move along, eh? 
SARA: I can't. 
CONSTABLE 1: Oh, yes you can, young lady. That's enough of joking. I'm sure you're going to enjoy yourself at that party you're going to, so why not go down there now. 
SARA: I'm not going to a party. 
CONSTABLE 1: Well, wherever you are going dressed up in them fancy clothes, you leave now and there won't be no trouble. 
SARA: I've got to stay here. 
CONSTABLE 1: Now you take my advice, young lady, and leave now. Otherwise, I might have to run you in for loitering or something like that. I wouldn't like to have to do that. We've had a bit of trouble like that already tonight. You see, we don't like people hanging around. But at Christmas time we have to be lenient, and we don't want to be too difficult for you. 
SARA: But. Oh, very well. 
CONSTABLE 1: Have a, have a, have a swinging time. Funny girl. 
SARA: The idiots. They've obviously got themselves into some kind of trouble.

[Police station]

SERGEANT: Why don't you sit down, lad. You're making the place look untidy. 
(At that moment, the Doctor is brought out of the interrogation room.) 
STEVEN: It's all right? 
DOCTOR: Of course, of course. And what are you doing here? 
INSPECTOR: Who are you? Do you know this man? 
STEVEN: Yes. I, I mean, aye. 
SERGEANT: He's the extra bloke from G Division, sir. 
STEVEN: Oh, yeah. It's all right. I'll look after him. 
INSPECTOR: Well, if you know him, perhaps you can tell us what he's doing in a police box. 
STEVEN: A what? 
INSPECTOR: That police box across the yard. He claims to live in it. 
STEVEN: Hold on, just a minute. It'll be all right. Just a minute. Oh, er, it's all right, er, you see, he's a funny fellow but I know how to handle him. We're used to him down in G Division. 
INSPECTOR: Very well. Well, get him out of here, and see that he steers clear of that police box. 
STEVEN: Right. I'll do that, sir. Right. Er, come on then, old man. 
DOCTOR: Enough of the old man either. What's all this funny accent? 
STEVEN: Everybody else is doing it. 
SERGEANT: I'll come with you, make sure you can manage. 
(Steven makes a great show of manhandling the Doctor out into the street.)

[Street]

CONSTABLE 2: Hey, you! Hey you, what you playing at? 
STEVEN: We've got to reach the Tardis, and hurry. 
(Now Sara has been apprehended. 
CONSTABLE 2: I don't know what it is about that police box, but first of all, the old bloke comes out of it. Now I catch this lass climbing about on it. 
SARA: Please let me go! 
STEVEN: It's all right. I know her too. 
SERGEANT: Aye. You seem to know all the queer people. Well, who is she? 
STEVEN: Well, she's a, she's a friend of the old man's. 
SARA: Let me go! Come on, Steven. 
(With a well-aimed elbow, Sara struggles free, and she and Steven slip into the Tardis after the Doctor. It dematerialises.) 
CONSTABLE 1: Hello. hello. What's up with you? 'ere, 'ere, it's gone. 
CONSTABLE 2: What? 
CONSTABLE 1: That telephone box, it's gone. Weren't it meant for us? 
[Tardis]

STEVEN: I found this jacket, so they thought I was one of their group. And when you appeared on the scene they were completely mystified. 
DOCTOR: Well, even I, dear boy, must admit that I enjoyed myself. Did you fix the scanner? 
SARA: I did. And no help from either of you. 
DOCTOR: Oh. 
STEVEN: At least it's working. 
DOCTOR: Have you checked it? 
SARA: Of course not. After that man grabbed me I didn't have a chance. 
DOCTOR: Never mind, never mind. Is the taranium safe? 
STEVEN: Yes. Over there. 
SARA: Oh, I'd forgotten about the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Now, that's one thing you mustn't do, my dear. Remember, they have the same type of machines and they can follow us. 
STEVEN: Yes. But, they won't have found out about the switch yet. 
DOCTOR: No, I sincerely hope not. 
SARA: While we have the taranium their plan cannot work. 
DOCTOR: I don't think the Daleks will attack the Solar System until they've checked their Time Destructor. 
STEVEN: Then what can we do? 
DOCTOR: Well, I think we might, perhaps, be able to destroy the taranium before they catch us up. 
SARA: I think we've stopped again. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we might, we might still be on Earth. Wait a minute. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no. The atmosphere has improved considerably. Yes, let's have a look at the scanner. It might tell us something. 
(The Tardis appears to have materialised inside a wood mill. A woman screams.) 
DOCTOR: The door! 
(A tall man in a long dark cape comes into view, dragging a young girl across the barn towards a huge circular saw.)

[Wood mill film set]

(There's a piano playing in the background.) 
BLOSSOM: (screaming) Oh, No! No! No! 
TRANTON: And then my secret will be safe forever. Ha, ha, ha, ha. 
BLOSSOM: (screaming) No! Help me! Somebody help me! 
TRANTON: Your cries cannot be heard. The sawmills are miles from anywhere. Ha, ha. 
(Steven, still dressed as a policeman, dashes from the Tardis and attacks the man, knocking him over. Sara rushes forward and unties the girl. But all is not as it seems. The Tardis has landed on a Hollywood movie set in the early days of film.) 
BLOSSOM: Oh! Somebody! Oh! Stop! Oh! Stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it! 
GREEN: Cut! Cut! Who let those bums in here? 
BLOSSOM: Steinberger, they've ruined my scene! Oh! 
GREEN: It's that guy, DeMille. He's trying to sabotage me! Get those bums out of here! 
(Several cameramen move in to overpower them. Sara uses her combat skills to decimate the opposition, Steven helping as best he can. In the melee they manage to escape.) 
GREEN: Did you see those two? Wait. I want them back here. 
BLOSSOM: Oh, Steinberger, what are you going to do about it? 
(Steinberger P Green is delighted with their performance, Blossom LeFevre and the leading man less so.) 
GREEN: Pipe down now. There's no camera running now. Save it for later. 
TRANTON: Steinberger, look at my eye. 
GREEN: (to a crewman) Hey you! 
TRANTON: Look what they've done to my eye. 
GREEN: I want those two back here. He's great! 
TRANTON: Am I, or am I not, the star of this picture? 
GREEN: bigger than Fairbanks! Well, don't just stand there, 
TRANTON: Look what they've done to my eye. Look at my eye! Look at my eye! 
GREEN: Go get them! 
(And so the hunt was on.)

[Studio corridor]

(Running down the corridor between two studios Steven meets the Doctor.) DOCTOR: Where's Sara? 
STEVEN: I must've lost her. Where are we? 
DOCTOR: In here quick. 
(They pass a small figure that loos suspiciously like Charlie Chaplin then dive through a door into a vast room full of costumes.)

[Sheik's tent set]

SHEIK: And then I will come to you on my camel, and sweep you away across the desert. 
INGMAR: No. No. Terrible! 
ASSISTANT: OK, Harry. Cut that at 23 (other words are drowned out as he continues the stage instructions) 
INGMAR: You've got to give it more feeling. She's not a sack of potatoes. 
VAMP: No. He is the sack of potatoes. Where did you find him, on a rubbish dump? 
SHEIK: I resent that! 
GREEN: Iggy. Iggy! Did you see them? 
INGMAR: Who? Who? 
GREEN: A guy and a gal. They just beat the living daylights out of my camera crew. It was great! 
INGMAR: Perhaps you like your film interrupted, but I do not. Please do not interrupt me when I am creating. 
MAN: Mister Kenoff? Mister Kenoff? 
INGMAR: Knopf. Ingmar Knopf. 
MAN: Mister Knopf, Professor Webster's here, sir. 
INGMAR: Ah, good. Send him to me at once. I need him in this next scene. 
MAN: Yes, sir. 
GREEN: You should have seen him! He was great! Bigger than Fairbanks! I've got to find a name for him! Something suave! 
INGMAR: No please, no please, do whatever you like, but leave me alone! Get off my set! I'm trying to make a film! 
(Knopf spots Sara creeping round the back of his set.) 
INGMAR: Who is this girl? If she's one of the harem, why is she wearing that extraordinary clothing? Tell her to get them off! Send her to wardrobe!

[Corridor]

(The door from wardrobe to the corridor opens and Steven and the Doctor emerge.) 
DOCTOR: No, I must find Sara. 
STEVEN: You think she's still in this place? 
DOCTOR: I'll try out there first. You wait here. 
(An assistant director spots Steven in his police uniform.) ASSISTANT: Oh, there you are! Everybody's waiting. 
STEVEN: No. Not 
ASSISTANT: Don't argue. Come on. 
(The Assistant Director puts a truncheon into Steven's hand and drags him to the nearby set, a Keystone Kops movie. Steven is horrified.) 
STEVEN: I'm nothing to do with your film. 
(Steven breaks free and dashes down the passageway closely pursued by two other Kops. A moment later he's carried kicking and shouting back the way they came.) 
STEVEN [OC]: Put me down! Put me down!! I have never taken part in a scene I swear. 
(Despite his protests, Steven is bundled off into the action and soon finds himself embroiled in a crazy car chase, which ends in rather inevitable disaster. As the dust settles, Steven takes his chance and runs off again.) 
ASSISTANT: Now where's he got to? We need him to do that scene again.

[Sheik's tent]

SHEIK: And then I will come to you. And then I will come to you. And then I will come to you on my camel and I will sweep you away across the desert. 
INGMAR: All right. All right. Professor Webster isn't here yet, so please don't exhaust your capabilities. 
SHEIK: Now look here, Mister Kenoff! 
INGMAR: Knopf. Ingmar Knopf. 
SHEIK: Kenerve. You can't talk to me like that. I am an actor! 
VAMP: What? He is not an actor. You are a cheap pig. 
SHEIK: Get lost, fraulein. 
(As the crew ready themselves for the next take, the Doctor appears and enters into the spirit of things by immediately being mistaken for someone else.) 
INGMAR: Professor Webster! Where have you been all this time? 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
INGMAR: We've been waiting for you. As our expert on Arabian customs we need your help. 
DOCTOR: Certainly, certainly. My help? Oh, I shall be delighted. Yes. (speaks arabic). 
INGMAR: How very good, Professor. 
DOCTOR: Doctor, please. 
INGMAR: Oh, Doctor! Now this is a rich Sheik's tent. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. And who is this? 
INGMAR: She is an Arabian princess. 
DOCTOR: Nonsense! You put some more clothes on, child. Go along. And what's all this? 
(The Doctor raps on a nearly chest. It opens and Sara climbs out.) 
INGMAR: What are you doing in there? Please, get out. You are in the next scene, the harem scene, please. 
DOCTOR: Come on. To the wardrobe. The wardrobe. 
INGMAR: Doctor, where are you going? 
(But what has happened to Steven?)

[Corridor]

(Eluding the Assistant Director, Steven takes the precaution of removing the police tunic to avoid any future misunderstandings. He's heading back to the Tardis when) STEVEN: Sara, where've you been? 
SARA: I don't know, but a strange man kept telling me to take my clothes off. 
DOCTOR: Now, come along. We must go back to the Tardis. This is a madhouse. It's all full of Arabs. Come along. 
(Meanwhile, all was not well at the old barn.)

[Wood mill film set]

GREEN: Sure, baby, sure. I know it was a bit of a shock. 
BLOSSOM: You're trying to get rid of me. You don't want me as your star any more. 
GREEN: Of course I do, baby. You're great. I don't want those kids for your kind of a picture. 
BLOSSOM: But, you said you were going to make him bigger than Fairbanks. I suppose you're going to make her bigger than (lost under background dialogue) 
GREEN: No, honey, no. She's not that kind of a girl. You're the one I'm gonna make great. Now look. You're gonna, you're gonna take one more take, huh? Please? 
BLOSSOM: Oh, all right. But this will be the last time. 
GREEN: Sure, sure. Quiet everybody! Set up for a take! 
MAN: Set up for a take! 
VOICES: Set up for a take! 
GREEN: Makeup! 
MAN: Makeup! 
(Suddenly Green spots Steven and Sara trying to sneak around the back of the set towards the Tardis.) 
GREEN: Stop! Stop those two! 
MAN: Hey, you two! Come back here! 
GREEN: Stop those two! 
BLOSSOM: No! No, no, no, no. Oh! 
(The Chase was on.) 
STEVEN: Come on, Sara. 
GREEN: Stop those two! 
(During the chase, the Doctor finds a dejected looking clown leaning against the Tardis door.) 
DOCTOR: Come back, you two! 
CLOWN: Typical. When you're new around here, they chase you, but after a while, you're off. 
DOCTOR: What's that? 
CLOWN: All the time they want something new. New jokes. There aren't any. 
DOCTOR: Aren't there? Well, that's a joke in itself. 
CLOWN: Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. ha, ha, ha, ha. 
(Sara and Steven race down some stairs, once again interrupting the work of the great Ingmar Knopf.)

[Sheik's tent]

INGMAR: What are you two doing? Get them out of here. And will you please tell those girls to get changed? 
AIDE: Ya, ya, Mister Knopf. 
(Meanwhile, back at the Tardis)

[Wood mill film set]

CLOWN: Custard pies have been done by Chaplin, so I'm not allowed to. 
DOCTOR: Quite, quite. Now would you mind moving 
CLOWN: A drink of water, done by Chaplin. Banana skins 
CLOWN + DOCTOR: All done by Chaplin.

[Sheik's tent]

(Knopf is setting up another shot. 
CAMERAMAN: Now we start in close, see? And then we'll dolly back down along there. 
INGMAR: Hey, where's Webster? 
GREEN: Which way did they go? 
INGMAR: What are you up to? Please, where's Webster? 
GREEN: They came through here! Where did they go? 
INGMAR: Two fools rushed over there somewhere. 
GREEN: Wait! 
INGMAR: Where's Webster? Where's Webster?!

[Wood mill film set]

CLOWN: They They won't even let me do the wallpaper and paste routine. You know why? 
DOCTOR: Done by Chaplin. 
CLOWN: Yeah. 
DOCTOR: Now would you excuse me? 
CLOWN: I'll tell you something. That little Englishman has done everything. I think I'll give it up and take to singing. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
CLOWN: But who'd use a singer with a name like Bing Crosby? 
DOCTOR: Custard pies and Bing Crosby! Ha! 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
(Sara and Steven finally manage to get back to the Tardis and dash inside, pulling the Doctor in after them. It dematerialises. Neither Steinberger P Green, nor Ingmar Knopf have ever seen an illusion like it.) 
BLOSSOM: Steinberger, just when are we going to do my scene, huh? 
GREEN: What a great trick! They just disappeared! 
INGMAR: Webster! Come back! Come back, Webster! Come back! 
GREEN: What a great trick. It's the greatest! How's it done? 
(Fighting his way through the confusion, a little Englishman in pebble glasses approaches Knopf.) GREEN: Hey, come back! Where is it? Come back! 
WEBSTER: Excuse me. 
INGMAR: What do you want? Can't you see I'm busy? 
WEBSTER: I'm Professor Webster. 
INGMAR: Who? You? 
WEBSTER: Yes, Professor Webster. 
INGMAR: Darling! 
(And so they all lived happily ever after)

[Tardis]

SARA: Whatever was that place? 
STEVEN: Oh, I've no idea. I'm glad we got away. 
SARA: What were they doing? 
STEVEN: Your guess is as good as mine. Let's hope we never land there again. 
SARA: Oh. 
DOCTOR: Here we are. 
STEVEN: What's this? 
DOCTOR: Well, we so rarely get a chance to celebrate, but this time we must. 
SARA: Celebrate? 
DOCTOR: Yes. It's Christmas. 
SARA: Is it? 
DOCTOR: Don't you remember? The police station? Christmas? 
STEVEN: So it was, yes. 
DOCTOR: Here's a toast. A Happy Christmas to all of us. 
SARA: Oh. 
STEVEN: Same to you, Doctor. Sara. 
DOCTOR: (direct to camera) Incidentally, a Happy Christmas to all of you at home!

Episode 8 - Volcano

[Dalek base]

(On the planet Kembel, the Daleks have completed work on the Time Destructor.) 
DALEK 1: Inform the Dalek Supreme that the Time Destructor is ready for testing. 
DALEK 2: Are all circuits operational? 
DALEK 1: Yes, the taranium core has been fitted.

[Dalek Control room]

CELATION: Having had your contribution to this great weapon stolen, it must be a relief to you now that the Daleks have managed to recover it. 
CHEN: Without my help, it is unlikely that they'd have got it back. 
TRANTIS: At least that absurd story that it was my people from Trantis who stole the taranium has been discredited. 
CELATION: Yes. They were from Earth, I believe. 
CHEN: Only two of them and they are under the influence of some creature from another galaxy. 
TRANTIS: He looked like an Earth creature. 
CHEN: That's only a disguise. The Daleks know of him. He is some kind of time and space traveller. 
CELATION: Then he is nothing to do with me. We have not yet conquered the dimension of time. 
CHEN: I hear your experiments in that field are progressing, Trantis. 
TRANTIS: We have not yet succeeded. Only the Daleks know how to break the time barrier. 
CELATION: And this other creature, from wherever he comes. 
CHEN: Oh, he's of no importance now. After all, we're here to witness the testing of the Time Destructor, are we not? 
BLACK: All is ready? 
DALEK: It is. 
BLACK: Programme it for testing. 
DALEK: All that is needed is a subject. 
BLACK: The subject has been selected. 
(It looks at Trantis.)

[Tardis]

(The Doctor is viewing the read out on the console with some concern.) 
SARA: What do you mean, you don't know? 
DOCTOR: My dear, this machine can only tell us we're being followed, ,ot who by. 
STEVEN: It must be the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a hasty conclusion, but possibly right. Although I don't understand how they could have tested that taranium so quickly. 
SARA: We must get back to the planet Kembel. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, my dear. 
SARA: We must. We've got to destroy the Daleks' invasion fleet.

[Dalek Control room]

(From the observation area, Celation and Chen watch as a petrified Trantis is forced into the test chamber by two Daleks.) 
CELATION: I wonder why they chose him? 
CHEN: It was his own choice really. 
CELATION: What do you mean? 
CHEN: He was so eager to make a contribution to the time destructor that they've let him make one. His life. 
BLACK: Prepare to activate the time destructor. 
DALEK: Are the other two creatures to be present at the destruction?` 
BLACK: Yes. Their greed for power is so great that they can be trusted. Activate the machine. 
DALEK: I obey. 
(The Time Destructor is energised, humming and pulsing into life. Prepared for the worst, Trantis sinks to his knees, his face twisted in terror.) CHEN: So that's what's supposed to happen. A kind of abject insanity. 
CELATION: I do not know, though I always thought Trantis was a little unstable anyway. 
CHEN: Nothing's happening to him. 
CELATION: The Time Destructor does not work. 
CHEN: But that's impossible. It must work. It must. 
BLACK: The destructor is having no effect. 
DALEK: The mechanism is functioning perfectly. The fault is in the taranium! 
(The truth begins to sink in. The Dalek Supreme glides across the control room to confront Chen.) 
BLACK: The taranium core has failed. 
CHEN: It can't be true. There must be some mistake. 
BLACK: The Daleks do not make mistakes. You have lied to us. You have not given us the taranium. 
CHEN: Why should I lie? I can only benefit from my alliance with you. I brought you taranium, the real taranium. 
BLACK: The core is worthless. 
CHEN: No! No, it can't be. It came from Uranus. I know it did. 
BLACK: We fitted the core you gave us. It has failed to activate the Time Destructor, therefore it is not taranium. 
CHEN: It was the old man, that time-traveller. 
CELATION: What? 
CHEN: He must have changed it. 
CELATION: But it was you who said that what he gave you was the taranium core. 
CHEN: I know, but I didn't check. How could I? The old man fooled us. The Daleks should have checked before they fitted it, before they let the old man go. 
BLACK: Report to Skaro. They must send a time machine to us immediately. 
DALEK: I obey. 
BLACK: You will both wait here. 
CELATION: But this is nothing to do with me. I was invited as an observer. 
BLACK: Very well, you can return to your section. You, Mavic Chen, will wait here for the arrival of the time machine. 
CHEN: Yes. 
DALEK: What about the subject? 
BLACK: The subject? Exterminate him. 
(Emerging from the test chamber, Trantis believes for a moment that he's escaped death, before he's ruthlessly destroyed. As Trantis falls to the floor, Chen tries to conceal his horror at this callous demonstration.

[Tardis]

(Steven is monitoring the time curve indicator) 
STEVEN: It's still following us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
SARA: When are we going to land? 
DOCTOR: Pretty soon, my dear, pretty soon. 
SARA: And I thought you knew what you were doing. 
DOCTOR: I know full well what I'm doing, child. Now don't get so excited. 
STEVEN: They're getting closer, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? Yes, I see. Yes, I must do something drastic. 
SARA: What are you doing? 
DOCTOR: Landing, my dear. That's what you wanted, wasn't it?

[Cricket ground]

(At the Oval in South London, a match is in full swing.) 
TREVOR: Well, the English batsmen are really fighting against the clock now, Scott. 
SCOTT: (Australian) My word, yes. Seventy eight runs in forty five minutes to win. 
TREVOR: It really has been an exciting game, hasn't it, Scott? 
SCOTT: Very exciting. 
TREVOR: Well, let's have a look at the scoreboard, shall we? Now, you'll see. Goodness me, take a look at that, Scott. 
(The Tardis materialises on the field.) 
SCOTT: Take a look at what, Trev? 
TREVOR: There's a police telephone box on the pitch. 
SCOTT: My word, yes. 
TREVOR: Well this really is extraordinary. You don't remember anything like this happening before, do you, Scott? 
SCOTT: No. No. 
TREVOR: Well, anyway, Ross is looking through the record books and if there has been anything like it before, I'm sure he'll find it for us. 
SCOTT: You know, Trev, this puts a new light on the game. 
TREVOR: What light's that, Scott? 
SCOTT: Well, I know your ground staff are excellent, but even assuming they get rid of it in say, ten minutes, England will still have to get their seventy eight runs in thirty five minutes. 
TREVOR: Yes. Yes, well I think we can safely say this has been a very bad break for England. 
SCOTT: A very bad break. Especially as the weather's been holding off so well. 
TREVOR: Yes, it has, hasn't it. Been holding off remarkably well. Well, let's have another look at the scoreboard shall we, although not very much has been happening these last few 
SCOTT: It's making a funny noise. 
TREVOR: What's that, Scott? 
SCOTT: A funny noise coming from the police box. 
(The Tardis dematerialises.) 
SCOTT: It's gone again, Trev. 
TREVOR: Yes, so it has. Well, that wasn't too bad was it, Scott? 
SCOTT: Two and a half minutes, I make it, Trev. 
TREVOR: Yes, well there's the position. England wanting seventy eight runs in forty two and a half minutes to win.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Yes, it's definitely some sporting occasion. 
SARA: Oh, I hardly think so, Doctor. 
STEVEN: Was it on Earth, do you think? 
DOCTOR: Oh, possibly, my dear fellow, possibly. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, wherever it was, there's still someone on our tail. Here, look at this. 
DOCTOR: Yes, my plan hasn't worked. Following us closely.

[Dalek Control room]

(A Dalek time machine materialises.) 
DALEK: Your order has been carried out. The time machine is ready to commence operations. 
BLACK: Excellent. Organise a task force for the pursuit of the time travellers. 
DALEK: I obey. 
BLACK: Ascertain their position on the space time scope. 
DALEK: I obey. 
BLACK: Mavic Chen, you will accompany the task force. You will ensure that the taranium core is returned to Kembel. 
CHEN: Of course. I shall do everything in my power. 
BLACK: If you fail, or if we find that you have deceived us, you will suffer the same fate as the time travellers. Annihilation!

[Tardis]

(The planet Tigus is riddled with volcanoes, lava running in steaming bubbling rivers. It is here the Tardis materialises on the slopes of a deep volcanic crater.) 
SARA: Where are we, Doctor? Do you know? 
STEVEN: It doesn't look very pleasant, does it? 
DOCTOR: No, we must take off quite soon. 
SARA: It's stopped. 
STEVEN: What does that mean, Doctor? Have we shaken it off? 
DOCTOR: No, my boy, we haven't shaken them off. Whoever it was following us has landed. They've landed out there. 
(Not far away, a large boulder stands alone on the uneven volcanic ground. It appears even more odd when a door opens in the side of the boulder and the figure of a man in monk's robes appears. The Monk scans the horizon using a pair of binoculars and is delighted when he spots the Doctor's Tardis a short distance away.)

[Planet surface]

STEVEN: You know, Doctor, it would help if we knew what we were looking for. 
SARA: I still say it was madness to come out here. We should have taken off again or tried to get back to Kembel. 
DOCTOR: My dear young girl, what good would it be to run away? The sooner we find who's pursuing us the better. 
(Steven sits down on some rocks then stands up again hurriedly.) 
STEVEN: Hey! Hey, this is hot. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I can well imagine that. This is a new planet, my boy. It's cooling down, cooling down. Fascinating. Yes, extremely fascinating. I wonder? I wonder who'd take the time and trouble to follow us? Yes, I think there is an explanation, but unlikely. Possible, very possible. 
(As the Doctor and his companions widen their search, The Monk circles round behind them. He manages to avoid being spotted and at last reaches the Doctor's Tardis. Petulantly he kicks at the ship but only succeeds in hurting his foot. It's time for a more scientific approach. The Monk takes a small pencil laser from his tool bag and puts on a pair of dark goggles to protect his eyes. He applies the laser to the Tardis lock. There is no apparent damage to the Tardis, but the Monk seems delighted with his handiwork. Putting his tools away, he sets off back to his own ship.) 
DOCTOR: Hello there! Hello! Don't you think we should meet and talk it over? 
STEVEN: Doctor, who are we waiting for? 
DOCTOR: Oh, you'll see, my boy, you'll see. 
STEVEN: Oh, come on, tell us, otherwise you'll say you're right whoever we meet. 
DOCTOR: You lack one quality of all the others, my boy, and that is patience. 
(On a ridge above them, the Monk comes into view, a large rock raised defensively over his head.) 
SARA: Doctor, look! 
DOCTOR: Ah, tut, tut, tut, my dear Monk. Now don't be so ridiculous. Put that down at once. 
MONK: Well, hello, Doctor. Keeping well? 
DOCTOR: Oh, no complaints, no. And you? 
MONK: Oh, so so, you know, just so so. 
SARA: Who is it? 
MONK: Delighted to see you again, young man. 
STEVEN: Thanks. I wish I could say the same for you. 
DOCTOR: I suppose congratulations for your escape are quite in order. 
MONK: Oh, thank you. Most kind of you, Doctor. Yes, it took a bit of time, but I finally managed to bypass the dimensional controller. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a very interesting solution, yes, I'm sure, though I think it would make for rather an uncomfortable ride. However, I don't suppose it affected you very much, being an amateur. 
MONK: Yes, it was rather uncomfortable, but then, we can't have everything, can we? As for being an amateur, we shall see. Anyway, it was better than 1066. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose so. 
SARA: What's he talking about, 1066? 
STEVEN: It's all right. We've met the Monk once before. I'll explain later. 
DOCTOR: And you returned here for one obvious reason, did you not? 
MONK: I'm afraid so, Doctor. Revenge is a strange thing, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, quite, quite. Tell me, any plans? 
MONK: And all carried out as well. Oh, ho. Doctor, you remember you left me in 1066? Now I've marooned you on the planet Tigus. Look! Oh, it's funny this. Forgive me laughing, Doctor, but I don't seem to be able to control it. Well, goodbye, Doctor. Perhaps I'll come back one day and rescue you. 
STEVEN: Hey, wait a minute. 
DOCTOR: Don't waste your breath, young man. The most important thing is, is to find out what he's done to the Tardis. Come on.

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor tries to unlock the door but his key will not work.) 
DOCTOR: Reset the lock mechanism. He probably used some kind of ray. 
SARA: What does that mean? 
DOCTOR: That means we cannot get back into the Tardis, child! 
(From a safe distance, the Monk watches gleefully as Steven tries picking the lock without success.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, you will achieve nothing, dear boy, nothing. 
SARA: Yes, perhaps, but it's better than just accepting everything. 
DOCTOR: Yes, like I am, I suppose? 
STEVEN: Well, you haven't been taking much interest have you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, and why not, dear boy, why not? Because I am using my brain. I'm trying to solve this problem. 
(The Doctor takes off his ring and looks at it thoughtfully.) 
DOCTOR: Now just stand back and cover your eyes, please. 
(He angles the ring so as to reflect the glare of Tigus' sun onto the lock.) 
STEVEN: What does that do? 
DOCTOR: Perhaps nothing, perhaps everything. Will you do as you're told at once. Cover your eyes, please. 
(Sara tries the door.) 
SARA: It hasn't worked. 
DOCTOR: Wait a moment, child. 
(The Doctor uses his key to unlock the door then stands aside.) 
DOCTOR: Now try. 
STEVEN: You're a genius, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know, my boy. I know. 
(The Tardis dematerialises. The Monk can barely believe his eyes.) 
MONK: Oh, no, no. Don't think I'm going to leave it at this. You haven't heard the last of me, Doctor. You haven't heard the last of me!

[Tardis]

STEVEN: If you ask me, we haven't heard the last of that monk. 
DOCTOR: Quite so, dear boy. He'll be on our trail again as fast as he can get going. 
SARA: Yes, but next time we'll be expecting him. 
DOCTOR: Exactly, my dear, exactly. Now, Steven, there's something I want you to do. Go to that indicator and let me know the instant the Monk's Tardis registers. 
STEVEN: Yes, all right, but first you tell us something. How did you break that lock? 
DOCTOR: Oh, that's all very simple, dear boy. You see the sun in that particular galaxy has very unusual powers. I merely reflected its powers through that ring. 
SARA: Is there something special about it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it has certain properties. The combined forces of that sun together with the stone in that ring was sufficient enough to correct the Monk's interference. 
STEVEN: Yes, but what properties has it? 
DOCTOR: Now, I don't want to discuss this anymore. Please, about turn, and do as you're told. Go along.

[Dalek Control room]

(The Dalek's time machine is prepared and ready to leave Kembel. A squad of Daleks files aboard, accompanied by Mavic Chen. The door closes behind them.) 
DALEK: The task force is now aboard. 
BLACK: Commence count down. 
(In the background a Dalek counts down from 100.) 
DALEK 2: The enemy ship is preparing to land. 
BLACK: Compute their bearing and advise task force. Task force will use the homing beam. 
DALEK: Enemy ship located. Space time bearing, planet Earth, London, 1966.

[Tardis]

(The Tardis has materialised in Trafalgar Square just before midnight, New Year's Eve 1966. Not knowing quite what to make of it, Steve observes the boisterous revellry on the scanner.) 
STEVEN: Well, you won't be able to carry out your repairs here, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No. 
SARA: It's some sort of celebration, isn't it? 
DOCTOR: I don't quite know, you just listen, my dear, listen. 
(Church bells are pealing.)

[Dalek Control room]

DALEK [OC]: Twenty two, twenty one, twenty, nineteen, eighteen

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: It's Earth. I've seen that place before. 
SARA: What do you think they're celebrating? 
DOCTOR: Well, as far as I can remember, I've seen them behave in a fashion like that on a former occasion. 
STEVEN: What was that? 
DOCTOR: The Relief of Mafeking.

[Dalek Control room]

DALEK [OC]: Four, three, two, one, zero. 
(The Dalek time machine dematerialises.) 
BLACK: Report to Skaro. Our time machine is now in pursuit. Nothing can match Dalek technology. The universe shall be ours. Conquest is assured. 
ALL: Conquest! Conquest! Conquest! Conquest! Conquest!

Episode 9 - Golden Death

(The Tardis lands close to the base of the Great pyramid in ancient Egypt.)

[Dalek Time machine]

(The Dalek task force leader is coloured red.) 
RED: Mavic Chen, the recovery of the taranium core is your responsibility. 
CHEN: I welcome it. Guile and cunning will succeed where force would fail. 
RED: Once the taranium core is in your possession, we shall eliminate the humans. 
CHEN: Of course. 
(Chen indicates the desert terrain shown on the scanner.) 
CHEN: And I assume that that is where they've landed? 
RED: You are correct and we shall arrive shortly. In four Earth minutes. 
CHEN: They must have equipment in their ship. Equipment that would inform them of our pursuit. 
DALEK 1: The time traveller is making no attempt to take off. 
CHEN: That's very strange. Why should they choose to wait and face us?

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor and his companions have no desire to remain in Egypt any longer than necessary, but as a result of the Monk's tampering, the Tardis lock needs to be properly repaired before they can leave.) 
STEVEN: How long is it going to take you to mend the lock, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's hard to say, my boy, but I think that its going to be a little more difficult than I thought. 
STEVEN: Oh yes, and the other time machine is still registering. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but I don't think so for much longer. It's about time you know that that wretched Monk landed and I think he will quite soon. 
STEVEN: Well, it's quite impressive isn't it? 
DOCTOR: Well, yes, the pyramids are the seventh wonder of this ancient world, I should say the word impressive is rather an understatement. 
STEVEN: Yes, you could be right. Well, they've finished it you think? There doesn't seem to be anyone around. 
DOCTOR: Would you mind passing me the diatrab, dear boy, please. 
(Steven hands the Doctor what he thinks is the correct tool. The Doctor looks at the strange gadget he's been handed. It's not what he asked for at all.) 
DOCTOR: I said the diatrab. I said the diatrab. 
(In exasperation the Doctor takes the diatrab for himself.) 
STEVEN: There's not much cover, is there? If the Monk's Tardis lands this side of the pyramid, we should see it easily however it disguises itself. You know, I think I'll take a look from up there, It'll give me a better view. 
(Steven clambers up on some stone blocks and disappears out of sight.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think perhaps it would be a good idea if you keep your eye on the Monk, so if you climb higher. Talking to myself.

[Dalek Time machine]

DALEK 1: Stand by for materialisation. 
DALEK 2: Continuum stabiliser reading four, three, two, one, zero! 
DALEK 1: Materialising now!

[Outside the Tardis]

(From his vantage point, Steven sees the Dalek's time machine materialise.) 
STEVEN [OC]: Doctor! Doctor, I can see it. I saw it land! Doctor! 
(Steven comes back down) 
STEVEN: Doctor 
DOCTOR: Calm down. Calm down. What's all the fuss? Is that you bawling your head off? 
STEVEN: Yes, I saw it land over there. 
SARA: Doctor, whatever was following us has stopped registering on the time curve indicator. 
STEVEN: It's over there, Sara. About a quarter of a mile away. 
DOCTOR: Now that's very good. Yes, very good. Now, please excuse me. 
STEVEN: Well, oughtn't we to take the initiative, and go and meet the Monk? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear young man, I have no intention of leaving the Tardis unlocked. And another thing you should know. Do you realise I had to strip the whole of this mechanism down before I could put it right. 
STEVEN: How long are you going to be? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't know. But anyway I dare say I can catch you up somewhere. But be careful. You know that Monk can be very harmful if he wants to. 
STEVEN: Don't worry Doctor, we'll watch him. 
(Left alone, the Doctor turns back to his work, but he's unaware that he's being watched from a distance by Tuthmos, an overseer at the great pyramid. Making sure that he is not spotted by the Doctor or his companions, Tuthmos goes report what he's seen to Hyksos, the Captain of the guard.)

[Compound]

TUTHMOS: Master! Strangers at the tomb! 
(Hyksos summons a party of guards to investigate.) 
HYKSOS: Come!

[Gaza platform]

(From atop the piles of stone, Steven and Sara have an excellent view of the newly arrived ship, an oval shaped metallic craft with inset archways.) 
STEVEN: Well, it didn't work this time, did it? 
SARA: What hasn't? 
STEVEN: The Monk's Tardis. It usually blends in with it's surroundings like the Doctor's should. 
SARA: Maybe the Monk didn't bother this time. 
STEVEN: Yes, maybe, but I thought it was automatic. Anyway, let's take a look. 
(They're about to move when Sara grabs Steven's arm. Mavic Chen and a group of Daleks emerge from the ship.) 
STEVEN: Daleks! 
SARA: I knew we should have tried to get back to Kembel. 
STEVEN: It's a bit late for that now. We've got to warn the Doctor. Come on. 
(They start back to the Tardis, running straight into an ambush by Hyksos and his men.) 
HYKSOS: Take them away! 
(Steven and Sara are quickly overwhelmed.) 
HYKSOS: The rest of you follow me. More of them! 
(Hyksos has spotted Chen and the Dalek up ahead.) 
HYKSOS: Seize them! 
(But the Egyptians remain frozen to the spot as the Dalek approaches them.) 
HYKSOS: Seize them, you cowards! 
RED: Exterminate the creatures. Pursue and exterminate. 
(More Daleks emerge from their ship. The terrified Egyptians turn and flee as the Daleks glide after them in pursuit. Relentlessly the Daleks track the men across the site and exterminate them one by one. Witness to the brutal and efficient massacre of his men, Hyksos realises he cannot defeat these strange metal creatures without help. Managing to evade the Daleks, he finds his way back to Tuthmos who has watched unfolding events with horror) 
HYKSOS: Tuthmos, a slaughter! I must fetch reinforcements. 
(The surviving guards retreat to safety, taking Steven and Sara with them. Elsewhere, Chen emerges from where he's hidden during the fighting. DALEK 1: Did we sustain damage? 
DALEK 2: No. It was only inhabitants of this time and planet. 
DALEK 3: Unimportant. 
DALEK 1: Exterminate them on sight.

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Doctor has finished his repairs, unaware of events taking place elsewhere. He's packed away his tool kit and emerges from the Tardis cane in hand, locking the door behind him.) 
DOCTOR: Well, that's finished. Now I must go. I wonder where those other two are now. Sara? Steven?

[Pyramid]

(The Doctor wanders through the pyramid workings searching for Steven and Sara. Not far from the Tardis he has to tip-toe past a sleeping guard. Piled up around him are the Pharaoh's treasures intended for the tomb. Linens, urns, statues and a stone sarcophagus. As the sun beats down the Doctor soon becomes uncomfortable in the oppressive heat. There's no sign of Sara or Steven. At last he's forced to stop and rest, taking the opportunity to mop his brow with his handkerchief and loosen his collar. He's about to resume his search when a familiar sound stops him in his tracks. Amused, the Doctor moves closer to where the Monk's Tardis, now disguised as a large block of stone, has materialised. From his hiding place, the Doctor watches as the Monk emerges from his time machine, blinking in the strong sunlight. A moment later the Monk ducks back inside to reappear seconds later wearing a pair of sunglasses. The Monk sets off across the pyramid workings. Allowing him a small head start, the Doctor moves to follow, dodging around the blocks of stone in order to keep out of sight. But after a few steps he stops in his tracks as an awful thought occurs to him.) 
DOCTOR: Who was it landed here before, then? The Daleks!

[Compound]

(Steven and Sara are dragged into the Egyptian compound, pushed roughly to the floor and bound hand and foot. Hyksos watches over them. He's no patience for tomb raider.) 
HYKSOS: Plunderers! Murderers! 
(Khephren, architect of the great pyramid, nods in agreement.) 
KHEPHREN: What of the others? 
HYKSOS: I will journey to the next encampment. We'll need an army to do battle with their fire-throwing machines. 
KHEPHREN: Yes, and I will take my slaves to the tomb. The treasures that Pharaoh has sent for his journey to the afterlife will be placed inside. There they will be easier to guard. 
(Khephren leaves, and Hyksos turns to Tuthmos.) 
HYKSOS: I will return when the sun is above us. 
(Taking two men, Hyksos leaves. Tuthmos stands guard over Steven and Sara.) 
STEVEN: How long are you going to keep us here? 
SARA: Yes. 
TUTHMOS: Until your friends have been brought to join you. Then you will answer for your crimes. 
STEVEN: We haven't got anything to answer for. We're not interested in your treasures. 
TUTHMOS: Not even the old man? 
STEVEN: Not even the old man. 
TUTHMOS: Then why did he examine so carefully that large blue box? 
STEVEN: Well, probably because the large blue box was his. 
TUTHMOS: Now, I know you lie. Everything the slaves hauled here across the desert belongs to Pharaoh> 
(Tuthmos turns away dismissively. After a moment, Steven feels movement behind his back.) 
STEVEN: What are you doing? 
SARA: While you were talking, I managed to find a piece of broken pottery. With a bit of time I think I can get though these bonds. 
STEVEN: Great. Keep sawing.

[Pyramid]

(Out in the heat of the day, the Monk is sneaking around the pyramid workings looking for the Doctor. Not far behind him, the Doctor follows, ducking out of sight when necessary. Alerted by a faint sound up ahead, the Monk looks for cover then hears someone approaching. There's nothing for it but to bluff it out. As the Doctor watches, the Monk pockets his sunglasses, draws up the hood of his habit and turns towards the newcomer.) 
MONK: Good morning, my son. 
(It takes a moment for the sight before him to register.) 
MONK: A Dalek! 
CHEN: Wait! Don't fire! 
DALEK: Dalek exterminations will not be questioned. 
CHEN: This could help us recover the taranium core. 
DALEK: Explain. 
CHEN: In a moment. So, you have heard of the Daleks? 
MONK: Yes, yes, by reputation. 
CHEN: Then you are certainly not of this time. 
MONK: No, oh no, certainly not, no. Just a passing time traveller anxious to be on his way, so if you'll excuse me I'll 
DALEK: Halt! 
CHEN: Three time machines in one infinitesimal speck of space and time. Of course, a coincidence is possible, but hardly likely. You would agree? 
MONK: Oh, yes, I would agree. 
CHEN: Then why have you arrived here? 
MONK: Three, three time-machines? Yes, well, the odd one out belongs to a certain Doctor. 
DALEK: The enemy ship! 
MONK: Yes, that's right. The enemy. I have an old score to settle with him, but I'm sure yours is the prior claim. 
CHEN: He is a friend of yours? 
MONK: Friend? No, no, an enemy. An enemy to end all enemies! I came here to inflict a terrible vengeance on him. I mean, we're all on the same side here, aren't we. 
CHEN: But he knows you. 
MONK: Well, er, in a manner of speaking, yes, and again in another manner of speaking, no. 
CHEN: Could you gain his confidence? 
MONK: Certainly, certainly. If you wanted me to. Oh, there's no question about it. No doubt at all. 
CHEN: Then you may have a slight chance of saving your life. The Doctor and his friends have in their possession a full emm of taranium. 
MONK: A full emm of taranium. 
CHEN: It belongs to the Daleks. You will recover this and return it to us within one Earth hour. 
MONK: Oh, I will. I promise. 
CHEN: And I need hardly remind you that the Daleks will reward failure on your part with elimination. 
MONK: Elimination. Thank you. Elimination! Oh, you'll get it back, have no fear. 
CHEN: Then you'd better leave at once, and waste no more of your valuable time.

[Gaza platform]

(The Egyptian slaves have been busy carrying all the treasures down the narrow passageways into the burial chamber at the heart of the great pyramid, the Doctor's Tardis among them. Returning to his ship, The Monk goes inside. From afar, the Doctor is keeping pace with him and watches his every move.)

[Outside the Monk's Tardis]

(The Monk emerges from his Tardis carrying a small compass-like unit in his hand. An energy locator that will help him find the Doctor's machine. Mindful of the deadline he's been set, the Monk begins his search immediately. Once he has gone, the Doctor emerges from hiding. Checking the doors to the Monk's ship, he finds them unlocked.) 
DOCTOR: Good heavens. You're given an opportunity you didn't before. 
(The Doctor slips inside. After a few second, the Monk's Tardis changes shape. It takes on many forms, a Greek column, a silver leafed tree, a stage-coach, an igloo, a Sopwith Camel, a one man rocket ship, before settling in the familiar shape of a blue police telephone box. The Doctor comes out of the ship. He's carrying a directional unit which he's removed from the Monk's control console. Most pleased with his handiwork, the Doctor sets of back across the site.)

[Compound]

(Meanwhile, Sara has nearly sawn through Steven's ropes.) 
STEVEN: How's it going? 
SARA: I think that's done it. Yes. 
(Once Steven's hand are free he quickly unties Sara.) 
STEVEN: Now for those guards. 
SARA: Come on! 
(Attacking from behind, Steven and Sara take the three guards by surprise. As Steven struggles to bring the largest man down, Sara grabs another and chops proficiently at his exposed neck. The guard drops to the ground. The third man closes in on Sara. Spinning round she kicks him hard in his stomach, winding him. Before he can catch his breath, Sara grabs his head and smacks it against the wall, sending the unfortunate guard crashing to the floor. Steven is still struggling. Wading in to help, Sara delivers a knockout punch. As Steven gets to his feet, Sara eyes him approvingly.) SARA: Not bad. Remind me to teach you a few tricks sometime. 
STEVEN: Remind me not to pick a fight with you. Come on.

[Gaza platform]

(Using his locator, the Monk has arrived at an area of open ground. The original landing site of the Doctor's Tardis, now nowhere to be seen. Puzzled the Monk looks down at the locator again as the needle swings around to point at the pyramid. The Monk moves off. Behind him the Doctor looks worriedly at the spot where the Tardis once stood, then hurries after his quarry.

[Inside the Pyramid]

(Nervously, the Monk enters the tomb. The Monk looks around him. Sarcophagus, the urns and paintings, the white linen, then he notices the Tardis, smiles, goes up to it and tries the door.) 
DOCTOR: You're wasting your time. You won't get in. 
MONK: Doctor, you've been following me. 
DOCTOR: For a time, yes, for a time. I've been glad to. You know, I don't think I would have found my Tardis without the help of that energy counter. 
MONK: No. Come in very handy, hasn't it? You know, Doctor, if your machine would blend in with its surroundings, people wouldn't be able to find it and then we wouldn't have all this trouble. 
DOCTOR: Yes, like your machine, I suppose. 
MONK: Exactly, Doctor. Like mine. I could teach you a thing or two, you know. 
DOCTOR: Well, you know, my way has its advantages. The Egyptians thought it was a very good idea, otherwise they wouldn't have brought it in here. As for your machine, well, it's probably disguised as a what, a sort of a block of stone? 
MONK: Now, Doctor, it's a pity we're having this feud, you know. Oh, by the way, you didn't track me on your time curve indicator this time, did you? 
DOCTOR: Not your machine, no. I didn't realise it at the time. 
MONK: I jump crossed the track. 
DOCTOR: Really? 
MONK: It's simple, really, you know, Doctor. I mean, it's up to you, of course. If you'd like to come inside, I'll show you how it was done. 
DOCTOR: And then you would be able to see the taranium, too. 
MONK: Yes, yes. Do you know, I knew there was something I had to tell you. I've come here to warn you about the Daleks. 
DOCTOR: Warn me? 
MONK: Yes. Oh, I played them along their own game of course for quite a time but they don't like you, you know. They don't like you at all. 
DOCTOR: Why didn't you? 
MONK: What? 
DOCTOR: Warn me. 
MONK: Oh well, you were talking at the time. I didn't want to interrupt. 
DOCTOR: You know, I think before I go, I should put you safely out of the way. 
MONK: Oh, come now, Doctor. Surely you don't think I was going to help the Daleks? 
DOCTOR: I did. 
MONK: Now, Doctor, look, let's talk this over like civilised time-travellers. It's the taranium core they want, not you. Why don't you give it to them then we can be all on our way. 
DOCTOR: If you believe that, my friend, you will believe anything! 
MONK: Doctor, don't do anything you might regret. Doctor. Doctor!

[Dalek Time machine]

RED: Give your report. 
DALEK: The time-traveller has not made contact. 
RED: He has betrayed us. Prepare a task force to attack. All the humans will be exterminated. 
DALEK 2: I obey.

[Gaza platform]

SARA: The Tardis! It's gone! 
STEVEN: Well, the Egyptians must have taken it into the tomb already. Come on!

[Inside the pyramid]

STEVEN [OC]: Doctor! Doctor! 
(Entering the burial chamber, they find it eerily silent.) 
STEVEN: Doctor? 
(They immediately notice the Tardis and the sarcophagus on the opposite wall.) 
STEVEN: Doctor? No Doctor. 
SARA: Unless he's inside. 
(Sara knocks on the Tardis door.) 
STEVEN: Doctor! Doctor! 
SARA: Steven. 
(Sara stares wide-eyed) 
SARA: Steven, look. 
(The lid of the sarcophagus rises and a bandage wrapped hand reaches out towards them.)

Episode 10 - Escape Switch
(from the Lost in Time DVD)

[Inside the pyramid]

(The occupant of the coffin tries to speak through his bandages) 
STEVEN: He's trying to say something. 
(Steven unwraps the mummy's face to reveal the wonderful Peter Barkworth.) 
MONK: Well, thank goodness for that!

[Dalek Time machine]

DALEK: The plan has failed. 
CHEN: We can't be certain. Although the time travelling Monk has not yet contracted us, we don't know what difficulties he's had to face. 
DALEK: The Earth hour allowed has expired. 
CHEN: In the present situation we can't afford to measure time exactly. 
DALEK: The time traveller has deceived us! 
CHEN: I don't think so. He dare not. Will the Daleks never learn that all things do not work to a pattern? That flexibility can also lead to conquest. 
DALEK: Silence! All Daleks will disembark. All forms of life will be treated as hostile. 
DALEKS: We obey! 
DALEK: You, Chen, will come with us. 
CHEN: But recovery of the taranium core was made my responsibility 
DALEK: Orders will not be questioned! 
CHEN: If you insist on this approach, I fail to see how I can be made to answer for the consequences. 
(Chen hits the Dalek on the eyepiece.)

[Inside the pyramid]

(Helping the Monk out of his wrappings) 
STEVEN: And it was the Doctor who did this?! 
MONK: Yes. It's unbelievable, isn't it. Absolutely unbelievable. I admit I succumbed to temptation 
SARA: What did the Doctor say? 
MONK: Well, he didn't say anything really. Nothing. There I was, trying to warn him of the Daleks and suddenly there I was in the sarcophagus. 
SARA: Oh, well I'm sure he'll apologise when he hears your story. 
MONK: Well, of course, I'm not one to bear a grudge, and we all know what the Doctor's like. No, I think it was just one of those things. 
STEVEN: Where do he go? 
MONK: I'm afraid I don't know. Unfortunately, immediately after this brutal attack, the next thing I remember was 
SARA: He probably gone looking for us. 
STEVEN: Well then, what do we do? Go out again and take a chance on missing him, or stay here? 
SARA: If he meets the Daleks he'll need our help. 
MONK: Stay here, definitely. I've got a terrible headache. 
STEVEN: What happens if we meet them? 
SARA: We just have to take that chance. 
MONK: No doubt the Doctor's got some some drug or other. 
STEVEN: All right, but I won't pretend that I like the idea. 
MONK: Well, if you give me the key to the Tardis 
SARA: What about him? 
MONK: I can go and get something out. 
STEVEN: He can come with us. That way we can keep an eye on him. 
SARA: Come on, then. 
MONK: Oh dear. 
STEVEN: What are you waiting for? 
MONK: Well, are you going to let me into the Tardis or not? 
STEVEN: I couldn't even if I wanted to. The Doctor's the only one with a key. 
MONK: Oh. 
STEVEN: Come on, we'll find him. 
MONK: That's what I'm worried about.

[Outside the Pyramid]

(Chen hears Steven calling) 
STEVEN [OC]: Doctor! Doctor! 
STEVEN: Doctor, where are you? 
MONK: Doctor. Doctor. There you are, you see. You'll wasting your time. 
SARA: Doctor! It's hopeless. 
STEVEN: Yes, I know it is. But what else can we do? 
(The Monk sneaks round the corner and meets two Daleks.) 
MONK: Ah, there you are. I'm been looking for you. 
SARA: Who's that? 
DALEK: You will join the other human. Move! 
(Steven and Sara go round the corner) 
DALEK 1: Prepare to exterminate them. 
MONK: Exterminate? What, when I've fulfilled our part of the bargain? 
CHEN: Give me the taranium core! 
MONK: I, I haven't actually got the core, but I've brought you hostages. 
STEVEN: Hostages? 
CHEN: Hostages. Yes, that could work. The Doctor's loyalty to his friends is beyond question. 
DALEK: No more discussion. 
CHEN: In exchange for their lives, the Doctor would hand us the core of the time destructor. 
DALEK: Is that true? 
CHEN: Their silence confirms that it. They know that it's true. 
DALEK: Take them back to the time machine. 
DALEK 1: I obey. 
(Steven and Sara leave) 
MONK: Well, now that little problem's settled, I think I'd better 
DALEK: You will return with us! 
MONK: Return with you. That was what I was going to say.

[Khephren's workshop]

TUTHMOS: Master. The prisoners escaped 
KHEPHREN: Escaped? We left the tomb unsealed. 
TUTHMOS: We must take the men and go after them. 
KHEPHREN: No, the war machines would destroy us all. Hyksos said he would return when the sun was above us. See, we do not have long to wait.

[Dalek Time machine]

DALEK 1: The voice audio has been adjusted. 
DALEK: What is its present range? 
DALEK 1: Seven earth miles. 
DALEK: Mavic Chen can issue the ultimatum. Bring Chen to the voice audio. 
DALEK 2: I obey. 
MONK: Well now, there seems to be quite a bit of activity going on. What's the matter? Is it something I've said? 
STEVEN: Don't you think you've done enough? 
MONK: Done enough? Yes, I suppose that saving your life 
SARA: What? 
MONK: Well, we're all here, aren't we? It was very quick thinking on my part. Very quick indeed. 
STEVEN: I don't believe it! 
MONK: Do you mean to say you actually think I meant what I said to the Daleks? My dear fellow, this was a desperate gamble, risking my own life to save yours. 
STEVEN: We can trust him about as much as we can trust the Daleks. 
MONK: You mean my performance was that good? I knew I had to fool the Daleks, but I thought you would see through it. 
SARA: He could be telling the truth, Steven. 
MONK: Only could be? You don't think I'd take the side of these creatures against you, do you? You do. Honestly, this baffles me, destroys my faith in human nature. 
STEVEN: Yes, well you can have your faith destroyed. 
SARA: Stephen. 
(Mavic Chen has entered) 
DALEK: Speak the ultimatum into the voice audio. 
CHEN: Doctor? Doctor, you should be able to hear me now, wherever you are. 
DALEK: Continue, voice audio is functioning. 
SARA: A kind of loudspeaker system. 
STEVEN: Yes. Maybe it would be better if the Doctor didn't hear it.

[Desert]

(The Doctor does hear it. Everyone does, and the Egyptians prostrate themselves) 
CHEN [OC]: Doctor, listen carefully to what I have to say. It is useless to try to fight us any more. Your two young friends are held prisoners by the Daleks. You know why we have pursued you through time and space. We want the taranium that you stole. You are to proceed to the Dalek time machine, south of the Great Pyramid, and receive your instructions. The vital core will be returned to us. Failure will mean the death of your friends.

[Khephren's workshop]

TUTHMOS: Master, It is the voice of the gods. 
KHEPHREN: No, Tuthmos. The gods would speak words we understood. 
TUTHMOS: Who else but the gods could speak in a voice like thunder? 
KHEPHREN: The same mortals who would build war machines that throw fire. When Hyksos returns, you will see the end of your gods.

[Dalek Time machine]

(The Daleks leave) 
CHEN: For your sake, I hope the Doctor does not keep us waiting long. 
(Chen leaves) 
SARA: We might try to warn the Doctor. 
MONK: Warn him? Whatever for? 
SARA: If one of us could get to that microphone. 
STEVEN: No, Sara, it wouldn't stop him coming here. It'd probably make him more determined. 
DOCTOR [OC]: All right, I'm here. Tell me what you want me to do.

[Outside the Dalek Time machine]

DOCTOR: I am here. Can you hear me? 
CHEN: Yes, Doctor. We heard you. 
DOCTOR: Where are they? 
CHEN: Now come, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Where are they! 
CHEN: It seems that the Doctor requires proof of what we say. 
DALEK: Put the prisoners on view. 
CHEN: We want the taranium core back Doctor, and there's nothing you can do to stop us now. 
(Steven, Sara and the Monk come out) 
MONK: Hello, Doctor. 
DALEK: Silence! 
DOCTOR: Very well, I will hand over the taranium core. 
CHEN: Ah. Very wise. 
DOCTOR: But on my terms. 
CHEN: You are in no position to make demands, Doctor. A Dalek escort will 
DOCTOR: No escort, and on my terms. 
DALEK: We could exterminate you now. 
DOCTOR: Yes, indeed. Indeed you could, but then you'd never get back the taranium core, would you now, hmm? Would you? 
CHEN: What are your terms, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: You will release your prisoners. I also include that Monk fellow too, though I don't know why I should bother with him. Bring all three to the place of rendezvous, and hand them over at the same time. 
CHEN: Why can't you come here? 
DOCTOR: You should know the answer to that as well as I do. None of you can be trusted. You and one Dalek, at the west angle of the Great Pyramid. 
DALEK: We accept. Take the prisoners inside. 
CHEN: I should go now, Doctor, before the Daleks change their minds. 
(The Doctor leaves) 
CHEN: I'm surprised that you met his terms so readily. 
DALEK: One Dalek is capable of exterminating all!

[Khephren's workshop]

HYKSOS: Khephren! 
KHEPHREN: Have you enough men? 
HYKSOS: Yes. They are already moving into position and waiting for my command. Have the war machines been seen? 
KHEPHREN: No, but we have heard them speak with a mighty roar! 
HYKSOS: My men will soon destroy them! Come! 
(Meanwhile, the Doctor gets the core from the Tardis)

[Dalek Time machine]

DALEK: It is time for the rendezvous. 
CHEN: You heard what the Dalek said. 
STEVEN: If you try any more of your funny business, I'll exterminate you myself. 
MONK: Funny business? Me?

[Outside the Dalek Time machine]

HYKSOS: Be on your guard. The war machines of fire will destroy without warning. Follow me.

[Outside the Pyramid]

RED: Halt. This is the location. Mavic Chen, you will receive the taranium. 
CHEN: Yes, of course. 
DALEK: There will no movement from you until the hand over is completed. 
MONK: It's not being done on your terms, Why don't you shut up? 
DOCTOR [OC]: Stay where you are. You will move when I tell you to. 
(The Doctor is behind some blocks of stone) 
DOCTOR: Mavic Chen, walk towards me. Dalek, halt! Mavic Chen, you have disregard my conditions. I said one Dalek. 
CHEN: But I am not their master. 
DOCTOR: Before we go any further, you will release your hostages. Then, and only then, will I hand you the taranium core. 
STEVEN: Don't trust them, Doctor! 
DALEK: You are released. 
DOCTOR: Away, all of you. Mavic Chen, join me at the back here. I am now about to hand over the taranium core to Mavic Chen. Follow me. 
(The Doctor give Chen the core and runs) 
HYKSOS: Smash the war machines! Smash them to bits! 
DALEK: Attack formation. 
(The Egyptians die quickly, but some lure the Daleks into a construction area where they are pinned in by bodies and piles of stone rubble) 
DALEK: Help! Help!

[Tomb]

STEVEN: You did it, Doctor. We got away again. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid not, young man. 
SARA: Why not, Doctor? What went wrong? 
DOCTOR: I had to hand the real taranium core over to Mavic Chen. I know I should have tried to get him but it was hopeless. There was so much chaos going on, and now it's too late. 
SARA: That means that the Daleks have won. There's nothing to stop them now. 
DOCTOR: Except this. 
SARA: What's that? 
DOCTOR: That is the directional unit from the Monk's Tardis. 
STEVEN: Directional? But with this we can get back to Kembel. 
DOCTOR: Perhaps, perhaps. 
SARA: But that's marvellous, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose it is. But that isn't all, my dear. 
STEVEN: No, I'm sure it isn't Doctor, but this is hardly the time or the place to tell us about it. I mean, the Daleks will be here soon. 
DOCTOR: I think not, dear boy. I had to take precautionary measures in case my plans didn't work. Now whilst I was collecting that unit, I changed the Monk's Tardis into a police telephone box. 
SARA: Like yours. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, exactly like mine. Well of course the Daleks will be on our track but I think, should my plan succeed, they will find the Monk. 
STEVEN: By the way, what happened to him? He was with us. 
DOCTOR: I don't care if he's in Timbuktu. 
(And they go into the Tardis)

[Outside the Monk's Tardis]

MONK: I got away from that Steven and Sara. Oh. The Doctor. He transformed my Tardis. 
DALEK [OC]: There is one of the time travellers. Stop his escape. Exterminate him! Exterminate him! 
(The Monk scrambles inside his Tardis) 
DALEK: Combined fire! 
(As they fire, the Monk's Tardis dematerialises.) 
DALEK: They have escaped. We shall pursue them through eternity. The taranium core must be recovered! 
CHEN: This patrol is obviously out of touch with events. 
DALEK: What do you mean? 
CHEN: All this hysteria is unnecessary. The operation was a complete success. I have the taranium here. 
DALEK: You have done well. Patrol, return to the time-machine. We must leave for Kembel at once.

[Tardis]

STEVEN: Yes, well, I hope the Daleks don't catch the Monk. 
SARA: After all that he's done? 
STEVEN: Yes, even after all that. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I shouldn't worry any more, my dear boy. There's no doubt about it, he's right away by now. 
STEVEN: Do you think he'll come looking for revenge again? 
DOCTOR: Perhaps, yes. Perhaps one day. At the moment, I should say that he's had quite enough for us for a while. Having taken his directional unit, it will take him quite a time to make the necessary repairs to his ship. 
SARA: What about our repairs? Will the unit work? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not certain. It's a Mark four, remember. There are two possibilities. One, it would work. 
STEVEN: Go on, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Number two, the increased energy rate will certainly destroy the centre column. 
SARA: But we do have a chance? 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear. A chance. A slim one.

[Dalek Time machine]

DALEK: Course for Kembel has now been computed. 
DALEK 2: Has all preparations for take-off being made? 
DALEK: They have. 
DALEK 2: Prepare to dematerialise now.

[Ice planet]

(An iceberg materialises and the Monk steps out) 
MONK: A planet of ice? I didn't set course for this. The Doctor again. The Doctor. He's stolen my directional unit. Now I'll have to wander through time and space as lost as he is. I'll get you for this, Doctor! I'll get you one day!

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: There we are. That's finished. It's a pity we haven't got a more reliable way of testing it. 
SARA: Well, come on, I thought you said that it's was finished. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, it is finished, my dear. But, er. 
STEVEN: Oh, come on, Doctor. We haven't got time for buts. This is our only hope. 
DOCTOR: Yes. You realise, of course, we're taking a terrible chance. 
STEVEN: You can save your breath. We've got to try it. 
DOCTOR: Very well, my boy. Pull the main switch. 
(Smoke fills the Tardis as it goes out of control)

Episode 11 - The Abandoned Planet

[Dalek Control centre]

(The Dalek time machine materialises) 
CHEN: The mission has been completed successfully. With guile and cunning, I have been able to repossess the taranium. 
BLACK: Are you certain it is the real core? 
CHEN: Of course. I had it examined before we arrived here. It is ready to be fitted to the Time Destructor. I hope that the Daleks will not suffer any more setbacks which could upset the plans for our conquest of the universe. 
BLACK: The final conference of the remaining members of the Galactic Council awaits you. 
CHEN: I shall go and address them, presently. 
(Chen leaves the control room.) 
RED: The task force has disembarked. 
BLACK: Excellent. Is the core fitted to the time destructor? 
RED: That is being done. Do we now deal with Mavic Chen? 
BLACK: No. His arrogance and greed have a further use for us. Alert the council to attend their final conference.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Well, fortunately there's no damage done to the control panel itself. 
STEVEN: But the directional unit? 
DOCTOR: Oh, that's useless, dear boy, useless. Take a look for yourself. 
SARA: What happened? 
DOCTOR: Well, the unit required a much higher energy rate then we possess. 
SARA: Then why did it burn out and not the Tardis controls? 
DOCTOR: A built-in safety measure, my dear. You see, the excess energy must have forced itself back into the directional unit and that means that our plans to return to Kembel have failed. 
STEVEN: That means that the Daleks can invade the universe and conquer it. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and there's nothing that we can do about it. 
SARA: There must be something we can do, Doctor. You must try to think of some way. 
DOCTOR: Well, our only chance, my dear, is to try and capture the Monk's time machine or that of the Daleks. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, let's get going. 
DOCTOR: Have patience, dear boy. It's highly probable they've all left by now, and I should think there's one or two of those Egyptians around. Let's take a look on the scanner. 
SARA: But that's not ancient Egypt. 
STEVEN: It's, tt's more like Kembel! 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's vaguely familiar. It might be Kembel. Do you know that means that that directional unit must have burned itself out after we'd dematerialised. I wonder if you'd bring that er, that impulse compass. 
STEVEN: Yeah, sure. 
DOCTOR: Well, now, young lady? Perhaps you'll have more faith in me in the future. I thought something would work out. 
SARA: But it was you who said we'd failed! 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, nonsense. 
SARA: Well, it wasn't me! 
DOCTOR: Of course it was. 
STEVEN: Oh, come on, Doctor, you'll have to forgive her. After all, she hasn't known you very long. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, perhaps, perhaps. Anyway, now we're here I think we'd better make a plan. 
STEVEN: How far do you think that we are from the Dalek city? 
DOCTOR: I've no idea. Though I think we might be able to make it on foot. Perhaps I'd better go out and take some bearings. Open the door, dear boy. 
STEVEN: Yes. 
SARA: That man! He was as much in the dark as we were and now he has the gall to 
STEVEN: Very good. You're getting to know him quite well. 
SARA: Before this is over 
STEVEN: Ah, ah, ah, save it for the Daleks.

[Conference room]

CELATION: There has been too much time wasted through the folly of the representative from Earth. Surely, it is only right that on his return he be removed from this council. 
BEAUS: But without him there will be no taranium! 
CELATION: The Daleks have assured us that they will recapture the core of the time destructor. 
BEAUS: Then we do not need Mavic Chen? 
CELATION: Exactly! He no longer merits a place on this Galactic Council. I call for a censure motion. 
(The delegates thump the conference table in agreement. Chen and the Dalek Supreme enter to witness this treacherous display.) 
BLACK: Silence! The final conference is now in session. Mavic Chen, representative from the Solar System, will address the meeting. 
(Chen bows to the Dalek then crosses to the table to address the other delegates.) 
CHEN: Fellow delegates. Even as you sit here, the great war force assembled under the Daleks, is awaiting the final order to set out and conquer the universe! 
BEAUS: Why is Mavic Chen speaking for the Dalek Supreme? 
CHEN: The final checks are being made and in a very short time that final order will be given! 
CELATION: Why is it that Mavic Chen is in possession of information denied to the rest of this Council? 
CHEN: Though we are all equal partners with the Daleks on this great conquest, some of us are more equal than others. 
BEAUS: The Representative speaks out of turn! 
CHEN: No! My contribution of the emm of taranium, is greater than all of yours put together. You have been dwarfed, dwarfed! 
CELATION: This violates the agreement by which this council was assembled. 
BEAUS: Arrest him! Arrest him! Arrest him! 
CHEN: You have no power to arrest anybody. You are nothing, do you hear me? Nothing! 
(The council members are united in their condemnation of Chen's ambition. The representatives are all on their feet, shouting. Giron moves forward to attack Chen. There's the sound of a weapon and Giron crumples to the floor. Smiling, Chen stands over Giron's fallen body, a blaster in his hand. The other delegates are stunned into silence.) 
CHEN: Before this conference began, the Dalek Supreme and I spoke together. This Council now is under my power. I will give the orders. You will obey them.

[Kembel - Jungle]

(Steven is making a path through the thick vegetation, using a compass-like device to try to find their way back to the Dalek city. He reaches a clearing and stops to wait for the others to catch him up.) 
STEVEN: You all right? 
SARA: Yes, though this jungle is hardly the place I choose for a gentle stroll. 
STEVEN: Just be careful of the Vargas. 
SARA: Vargas? I haven't seen any Varga plants. 
STEVEN: They've all over the. Come to think of it, neither have I. I thought the Daleks scattered them all over Kembel. 
SARA: Steven, you're sure we are on Kembel? 
STEVEN: Of course I am. The Doctor was certain when he took these rea. Where is he?

[Conference room]

CELATION: We have all served the common cause! All of us! 
CHEN: Indeed we have. But I, Mavic Chen, was solely responsible for the recovery of the core of the time destructor. Because of this, I naturally precede anyone here. For without my power, the Daleks cannot succeed. You do appreciate the point. 
CELATION: There remains one question. Where is our co-ruler, the Dalek Supreme? 
CHEN: He was 
(Chen turns and realises with some surprise that the Dalek Supreme has left the conference chamber. He climbs to the top of the exit ramp and finds the doorway barred. But Chen's vanity cannot be so easily contained.) 
CHEN: It is clear that he knows that I can run this council without his aid. Now, gentlemen, we come to the main discussion before this meeting. The apportioning of the government of the universe after the conquest. All of you will be allowed to oversee your own galaxies, but all of you will be responsible to the Dalek Supreme and me. 
(Unnoticed, a party of Daleks has re-entered the room.) 
DALEK: This meeting is over. 
CHEN: But it's isn't 
DALEK: There will be no more discussion. All representatives will come with us.

[Outside the Tardis]

(Still searching for the Doctor, Steven and Sara return to the Tardis.) 
STEVEN: Where can he have got to? 
SARA: Anywhere you like, out there. 
STEVEN: This is serious. Perhaps the Daleks have caught him? 
SARA: Then now they'll be looking for us. Look Steven, with or without the Doctor we've got to get to the Dalek city and find a way of putting that place out of action. 
STEVEN: Yes, but, Sara, what about the Doctor? He can't just have vanished into thin air. We've got to find him. 
SARA: No, not yet. Mavic Chen will have returned with the taranium. That means the Daleks plans will be ready to go ahead and we've got to stop them. 
STEVEN: I understand that. We can't just leave the Doctor wandering around lost in this jungle. 
SARA: If I know anything about him he's already reached the city. If we go there we can stop the Daleks and find the Doctor. 
STEVEN: Yes, all right. 
(They set off back through the jungle, making slow progress through the thick undergrowth.)

[Kembel - jungle]

(Steven keeps one eye on the compass.) 
STEVEN: The stronger signal's on bearing 242. According to the Doctor the Dalek city is over there. 
SARA: Where to now? 
STEVEN: I'll just take another reading. 
SARA: What exactly is 
STEVEN: Shh. So far, so good. We're on the right track. The source of power is still 242. 
SARA: Would you mind telling me how that thing works? 
STEVEN: What now? 
SARA: Yes, now. 
STEVEN: Look Sara, this is no time for a lesson on the power impulse compass. 
SARA: Supposing something happens to you? 
STEVEN: What are you talking about? 
SARA: I'd have to go ahead and reach the city alone. Don't you think you ought to show me how it works in case of accidents? 
STEVEN: Oh, you're so cheerful, aren't you.

[Dalek Control centre]

DALEK: The Galactic Representatives have been detained as you instructed. 
BLACK: They will be destroyed at the same time as the headquarters, at the start of the conquest of the planet Earth. Commence invasion count-down.

[Kembel - jungle]

(Steven and Sara finally reach an area of the jungle where they can overlook the Dalek city spaceport.) 
STEVEN: There it is. The take-off area. 
SARA: Yes. Are those the Dalek ships? 
STEVEN: No. Those belong to the other representatives. 
SARA: Where's the Dalek landing area? 
STEVEN: There too, possibly. But those representative ships'll have to take off first to collect their forces for the invasion. 
SARA: Right, let's get going. 
STEVEN: Just a minute! 
SARA: Why? We've got to defeat the Daleks. 
STEVEN: We've got to try to defeat the Daleks. If you and I just charge in there what chance do you think we've got against the greatest war force ever assembled. 
SARA: Oh, for heaven's sake, we'll go carefully. Look, Steven, just because the Doctor isn't here don't think that you're the only one who can outwit the Daleks. 
STEVEN: Look, I don't think that. But as you said, in any case, we'll probably find he's here already. 
SARA: Come on. 
(Using what cover they can, Steven and Sara cautiously approach the city walls.)

[City corridor]

(Not quite beleiving their luck, they find an unguarded entrance and slip inside. Before long, however, they realise something is not right.) 
STEVEN: I don't get it. It's uncanny. I mean, where have the Daleks got to? 
SARA: It's like a city of the dead. 
STEVEN: Let's see if there's any sign of life down here. 
(They move off down another corridor, moving deeper into the city and expecting at any moment to encounter a Dalek patrol.) 
STEVEN: We should have been challenged by now. 
SARA: We haven't come very far yet. 
STEVEN: What's that got to do with it? 
SARA: They're probably making final preparations for the invasion. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, they'd still need guards out here. 
SARA: Maybe they're not frightened. 
STEVEN: They always take some precautions. 
SARA: All right, you think of an explanation. 
STEVEN: Well, look, suppose. Suppose the Doctor did come here and they have caught him. 
SARA: Then now they'll be looking for us. 
STEVEN: No, possibly not. Not if he said he was alone. 
SARA: Huh. They wouldn't believe him. 
STEVEN: Why not? We weren't anywhere around. 
SARA: Steven, this could all be a trick. If they have caught the Doctor then they could be waiting for us. 
STEVEN: No. No, if they've caught the Doctor they won't worry about us. We've got to find him.

[Dalek control centre]

STEVEN: This place is empty too. 
SARA: Then this must be a trap. 
STEVEN: Why? 
SARA: Well, it looks like a control room. The Daleks wouldn't leave a place like this unguarded. 
STEVEN: Yes, that's true. That means they must have the Doctor if they can be this sure of themselves. Hey, isn't this their time machine? 
SARA: Now we can get back to Earth and warn them. 
STEVEN: Yes, except that neither of us knows how to work it. We could bluff them. 
SARA: How? 
STEVEN: If we could lock ourselves inside their time machine until they let the Doctor come to us. Well, he could work it. 
SARA: It's worth a try. Now we've got to contact the Daleks. Steven! Here's the Dalek loudspeaker system. This is Sara Kingdom of Space Security. Send the Doctor to the control room. 
STEVEN: I'd better try and get into that time machine. 
CHEN [OC]: Hello, Kingdom, Where are you? 
SARA: That's Chen. 
STEVEN: He must still be working with them. Mavic Chen, can you hear me?

[Cell]

STEVEN [OC]: Let us speak to the Doctor. 
CELATION: Is this more treachery? Who are these people? 
CHEN: They are the people who stole the taranium! 
CELATION: Why have they come back? 
CHEN: I don't know! You must let me speak to them! 
CELATION: No! Already you have betrayed us. This could be another trick. 
STEVEN [OC]: Mavic Chen! Let me speak to the Doctor.

[Dalek Control centre]

SARA: Don't waste time. They'll be on their way to us by now. 
STEVEN: Yes, but if they don't bring the Doctor the plan's useless. 
CELATION [OC]: Listen to me. 
SARA: Who's that? 
CELATION [OC]: Through the treachery of Chen we have been imprisoned. 
SARA: Who are you? 
CELATION [OC]: We are the Galactic Council. Will you release us? 
STEVEN: Where are you? 
CELATION [OC]: In a detention cell. 
STEVEN: Yes, but where? 
CELATION [OC]: We do not know! 
STEVEN: We got to find them! 
SARA: No, wait! This could be all part of the trick. 
STEVEN: No, I don't think so. Look, if there were any Daleks around they'd be here by now. They must have gone. Maybe the Doctor's with the Council. Come on!

[Cell]

CELATION: Mavic Chen, if this is a further trick we shall destroy you before they could destroy us. 
CHEN: It's not a trick! 
DELEGATE: Then why have they come back! 
CHEN: If you'd only think! Is there no sense in the outer galaxies? It is clear that they have lost their leader, the one they call the Doctor. The girl has bought the young man here to look for him, but really she has come back out of loyalty to me. To ensure my safety as the Guardian as the Solar System.

[Conference room]

SARA: Now where? 
STEVEN: How should I know? Just look at this place. It's fantastic. 
SARA: Come along, no time for sightseeing. Let's try down here.

[Cell]

CHEN: The efficiency of our security system is one of the main reasons for our natural supremacy. 
CELATION: What about the Daleks?! 
CHEN: Once we are out of here, we can destroy the Daleks. Between us we can muster a greater force than they. We can form our own galactic council. 
DELEGATE: Listen! 
(At the sound of footsteps approaching, the delegates crowd around the door. Chen pushes his way to the front.) 
STEVEN: That's them. 
CHEN: Kingdom! You've done well. Now let us out of here. 
STEVEN: No. 
CHEN: What do you mean, no? 
STEVEN: Where is the Doctor? 
CELATION: If he is your leader he is not with us. 
STEVEN: Where is he? 
CHEN: I don't know. Now let us out! 
STEVEN: So that you can rejoin the Daleks! Not likely. 
CELATION: Absurd! The Daleks have betrayed us! 
DELEGATE: Betrayed! 
CELATION: Why should we rejoin them? 
SARA: If we let them out, there's just a chance that some of them could mobilise a force to defeat the Daleks. 
DELEGATE: Of course we will! 
CELATION: You must! The Daleks must be destroyed. Akk our galaxies are in danger! 
SARA: We have no choice. 
STEVEN: Very well. But the Daleks have already left Kembel. It's probable that their invasion plans are already going ahead and the universe can be taken by surprise because of your greed! 
CHEN: Must you moralise at us? 
STEVEN: Your only chance is to go back to your own people and warn them. 
DELEGATE: Our people will kill us! 
CELATION: Not if we save them. We must destroy the Daleks. 
OTHERS: Destroy! 
MALPHA: We agree to go and defend our galaxies and to organise a search for the Dalek invasion force. 
SARA: Let them out, Steven. 
STEVEN: Yes, all right. 
(Steven reluctantly activates the door release. The delegates hurry away.) 
CHEN: You are a sensible woman, Kingdom. I will see you are justly rewarded.

[Kembel - Jungle]

(At the spaceport, there's a flurry of activity as the delegates return to their ships and prepare to leave Kembel.) 
SARA: There they go. 
STEVEN: Yes, let's hope they'll be in time. Look, there's the ship of Celation and Beaus. 
SARA: Chen's ship is still there. 
STEVEN: Yes, he must be nearly the last one to take off. 
SARA: What about the others? 
STEVEN: Those must belong to the dead representatives. 
SARA: Chen's taking his time to get off. 
STEVEN: There he goes. No! 
SARA: Something's gone wrong. 
(The Spar ship explodes in a ball of flame.) 
STEVEN: He's had it. 
SARA: Now he won't be able to get back to Earth and warn them. 
STEVEN: Let's hope that the others can mobilise fast enough. There must be something we can do. 
SARA: Yes. Find the Doctor. 
(Steven and Sara move off into the jungle to begin their search.) 
STEVEN: Shh! 
SARA: What? 
STEVEN: Listen. 
SARA: The Doctor? 
STEVEN: No! 
(Steven ducks out of sight, pulling Sara with him. After a moment, a Dalek glides past them.) 
SARA: They're still here. 
STEVEN: We must follow it. Quickly! 
(Following at a safe distance, Steven and Sara track the Dalek to a steep ramp that leads to a tunnel mouth at the base of a mountain.) 
STEVEN: It went down there, right into the heart of the mountain. 
SARA: Underground. Why didn't we think of that before? 
STEVEN: Sara, it's possible the invasion hasn't started yet. Maybe the rest of the forces are down there. 
SARA: Or part of them. There must be hundreds of places like that. 
STEVEN: Yes, but that Dalek must know that the representatives got away. 
SARA: They might even know that we're on Kembel. 
STEVEN: With the representatives gone and the Doctor disappeared, we're going to have to put them out of action ourselves. 
SARA: Can we? 
STEVEN: We've got to. Earth will still be invaded. 
CHEN: Certainly. Thanks to you. 
SARA: Chen! But you're dead! 
CHEN: Not yet, my innocent one, though I'm delighted my pyrotechnical display impressed you. No, I am alive and soon shall be master of the universe. Perhaps, Kingdom, you'd like to lead the way. 
SARA: Down there? 
CHEN: Of course. I'm certain the Daleks will be delighted to see you. 
(With Chen's gun at their backs, Sara and Steven move down the ramp towards the underground base until they're swallowed up in the darkness.)

Episode 12 - The Destruction of Time

[Metal corridor]

STEVEN: Don't you understand? By bringing us down here, you're doing exactly what the Daleks want. 
CHEN: Of course. 
SARA: He's mad! 
CHEN: Take care, Kingdom. I could easily forgo the pleasure of giving you to the Daleks. I could kill you myself. 
STEVEN: Why did you come back? This couldn't have been planned. You weren't to know that we'd come back and set you free. 
CHEN: I'm not a fool. I guessed your plan. 
SARA: Our only plan is to destroy the Daleks. 
CHEN: You were both able to fool the others, but you can't fool me. Where is the old man, the one you call the Doctor? 
SARA: We were looking for him. 
CHEN: Yes, of course. And that's why you came here. Now do stop this masquerade! See, I know he is trying to usurp my position with the Daleks. 
STEVEN: That is absurd. The Doctor's always fought the Daleks. Why don't you believe us? We don't know where he is. 
CHEN: Yet I find you at the entrance to the Daleks' secret headquarters. I know the Doctor's here and that he's trying to take my place. But I'll soon change that. 
STEVEN: Why can't you understand the Daleks do not make allies? 
SARA: Save your breath, Steven, you'll never convince him. I tell you, he's mad! 
CHEN: The Daleks need me. And now I'll be able to show them the Doctor would betray them. Lead on. 
(Tired of talking, Chen gestures with his gun and Sara and Steven reluctantly move forwards.)

[Dalek control centre]

DALEK 1: Assault division of five thousand Daleks awaits orders. 
BLACK: The time destructor will be placed in the lead ship. 
DALEK 2: Prisoners have been taken at entrance five. 
BLACK: Prisoners? 
DALEK 2: Dalek guard reports that the group consists of Mavic Chen and two of the time travellers. 
BLACK: Have them bought here to main central control. 
DALEK 2: I obey.

[Metal corridor]

(An escort of Daleks leads Chen, Sara and Steven towards the control room. Although Chen still has his gun, he's made to feel very much a prisoner.) 
CHEN: Your assistance, although welcome, is entirely unnecessary. I demand to take them to the Dalek Supreme alone. 
DALEK: Central control has been advised. 
CHEN: Well advise them again. Until you realise that these people are my prisoners, I shall refuse to hand them over. 
DALEK: I will verify my orders. 
CHEN: Good. 
SARA: There is still no proof that the Doctor is here. 
CHEN: Whatever else is thought about you, one cannot help but admire the way you both continue with your absurd bluff. 
DALEK: Representative Chen, new orders have been received. You are to escort the prisoners to the Dalek Supreme. 
CHEN: Excellent! After you. 
(Chen smiles triumphantly and turns his gun on Sara and Steven. They move off again. Once they're out of earshot the Dalek continues.) 
DALEK: But we are still to assist him.

[Dalek control centre]

DALEK 2: The prisoners have arrived. 
BLACK: Bring them in. 
DALEK 2: I obey. Bring in the prisoners. 
(Steven and Sara enter the room. Chen, who still has his gun, follows them, a smug smile on his face.) 
CHEN: Once again, I, Mavic Chen, Guardian of the Solar System, have helped the Daleks with their conquest plan. 
BLACK: Our alliance has ended. 
CHEN: What? But I have helped you time and time again with your absurd incompetence! I, Mavic Chen, will decide when the Alliance is at an end. You, Dalek Supreme, tell them they're to take their orders from me. 
(The Daleks do not move, nor do they speak. They watch Chen impassively.) 
CHEN: I assume that this silence means that the orders have been passed. Good. You, bring me the invasion reports. It is essential that I know what stage that countdown has reached. Now, move! You did not pass on my order. Why? 
(Chen aims his gun at the Dalek Supreme.) 
CHEN: Failure to obey the orders of your ruler brings only one reward. 
(He fires at the Dalek, but the weapon has no effect. The Daleks move to encircle Chen, ready to defend their leader. He drops his gun.) 
BLACK: Take him away and exterminate him, but do not fire in here. You will damage us and some of the controls. 
CHEN: You cannot turn against me! I, Mavic Chen, first ruler of the universe, am immortal! 
(Chen breaks away and dives for the doorway.) 
BLACK: Pursue and exterminate in safe area. Repeat, in safe area. 
(The Daleks file from the control room, their other prisoners forgotten in the confusion. Then, from the shadows, a familiar figure appears.) 
STEVEN: Doctor, how on earth? 
DOCTOR: Don't say anything. Just do what I tell you. Take that. 
STEVEN: What? The key to the Tardis? 
DOCTOR: Yes. Now, when I tell you, I want you to take Sara back to the Tardis. You still have that power impulse compass? 
STEVEN: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Good. Now follow bearing 627 to the Tardis. 
SARA: But what about you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Shh. There is no use in all of us taking risks. You must do as I say. 
STEVEN: Yes, but how did you get here? 
DOCTOR: I followed a Dalek here, of course. Now let me get on. I am going to activate the time destructor.

[Metal corridor]

(The Daleks pursue Chen through the corridors of the base. Very soon he finds himself cornered.) 
CHEN: You will pay for your crimes against your ruler. You cannot kill me! 
(Famous last words.)

[Dalek control centre]

STEVEN: Be quick! I'm sure they're coming back. 
DOCTOR: Ah ha, that's it. 
(The time destructor begins to glow and pulse with energy.) 
DALEK: Move back, all of you. 
DOCTOR: I am afraid you're too late. The time destructor is activated. 
BLACK: Do not fire! 
DOCTOR: No, you cannot fire, can you? You dare not. If you were to, yes, you could kill us, but you would totally destroy your equipment. I think it is checkmate. Send one of your Daleks over here. Remember, the time destructor is working, working slowly, but if you disobey me, I can accelerate it! 
BLACK: Do what he says. 
(A Dalek glides across the room to a spot directly in front of the Doctor.) 
DOCTOR: Turn about. You two, behind it. Steven, take my stick and clamp it down on his gun. Forward! 
(Using the Dalek as a shield they edge towards the exit, the Doctor carrying the time destructor in his hands. The Daleks observe their progress across the room, waiting for the chance to stop them. At last they reach the corridor and retreat, using their Dalek shield to block the doorway.)

[Metal corridor]

DOCTOR: Now, both of you, back to the Tardis. 
STEVEN: What about you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Do as I say, quickly! 
STEVEN: Go on! (Steven graps Sara's arm and drags her away. After a short distance, Sara stops and pulls herself free.) 
SARA: Wait, Steven. We can't just leave him. 
STEVEN: The Doctor knows what he's doing. At least, I think he does. 
SARA: All we're doing is running to save our own lives. If anything goes wrong and the Daleks recapture the time destructor, we'll have failed for ever. 
STEVEN: I know what you're saying. I'd go back too if I thought it would help. Whatever he's doing, he's doing because he thinks it's the best way. Now, come on!

[Outside the Dalek control centre]

(The Doctor is engineering his own escape. He gives the Dalek in the doorway a hard shove into the control room and throws his cloak into the door mechanism as it slides down, jamming it shut.) 
BLACK [OC]: Pursue and recapture. Pursue and recapture. Activate alarm! Activate alarm! 
DALEK [OC]: Door control jammed. Contact broken. 
BLACK [OC]: Correct fault immediately, then pursue and recapture.

[Metal corridor]

(As he hurries away from the control room, the Doctor meets Sara.) 
DOCTOR: What are you doing here? 
SARA: I came to help you. 
DOCTOR: You must remember, my child, this machine is working. It's working slowly because its range is rather small at the moment, but it is working. Now, if you start to feel strange, you must let me know at once. 
SARA: Yes, all right, but what about them? 
DOCTOR: First, back to the Tardis. Is Steven not with you? 
SARA: No. I came back that way. 
DOCTOR: Hurry, my child, hurry!

[Kembel - Jungle]

(Making his way back to the Tardis, Steven realises he is alone.) 
STEVEN: Sara! Sara! 
(Not far behind, the Doctor and Sara emerge from the Dalek base.) 
SARA: Hurry, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: My dear, are you beginning to feel strange? 
SARA: The wind. Listen, can't you hear it? I've never heard that on Kembel before. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, perhaps it's this time destructor having an effect on the elements. 
SARA: Then destroy it! 
DOCTOR: No, no, that's impossible, my dear. There's one thing I do know about this machine. It will continue until the taranium has finally burnt itself out. Our only chance is to get back to the Tardis. Then I can neutralise it. 
SARA: Hurry.

[Dalek control centre]

DALEK 1: Secondary door circuit completed. 
BLACK: Operate. 
DALEK 2: Obstacle clearing. 
BLACK: Pursue and exterminate! 
(The Dalek Supreme watches as a squad of Daleks glides from the control room, intent on recapturing the time destructor.)

[Kembel - Jungle]

(Steven reaches the safety of the Tardis and stumbles inside. Still clutching the time destructor, the Doctor leads the way back through the jungle but realises that Sara has fallen behind.) 
DOCTOR: It's not far now. Sara! 
(Sara is aging before his eyes.) 
SARA: Keep going! The Daleks must be after us by now! 
DOCTOR: The time destructor is 
(His words are lost in the gale force winds) 
SARA: You think I don't know? 
(The Dalek patrol leaves the underground base and sets off in pursuit of the Doctor. Ahead, the Doctor does his best to help the increasingly infirm Sara struggle onwards, despite the ever-worsening environment.

[Tardis]

(Meanwhile, Steven is pacing impatiently up and down. Not sure what else to do, he turns on the scanner.) 
STEVEN: Nothing. 
(Feeling helpless, Steven takes out his frustration on the Tardis console.)

[Outside the Tardis]

(The Daleks maintain their dogged pursuit. All around them the jungle is changing, plants withering and dying, lush foliage shrivelling up and turning to dust. Apparently unmoved and unaffected by the vast power of the time destructor, the Daleks continue to close in on their quarry. Yet the effects are taking a heavy toll on both Sara and the Doctor. Frail and weak, the old man stumbles onwards, all too aware that time is quite literally running out for his companion. At last they see the Tardis ahead but the Doctor can barely stagger a few more steps before he falls to his knees unable to go on. With a final desperate effort, Sara helps the Doctor up and they stumble a few short paces further before the Doctor falls again. The time destructor slips from his fingers, rolling away to lie just inches from his hand. Beside him, Sara pitches forward in the dust, unable to remain upright. She barely has the strength to open her eyes but somehow finds the will. She attempts to claw her way over to the time destructor.) 
SARA: Doctor. 
(The last of her strength gone, Sara falls and lies still.)

[Tardis]

(Steven's delight at seeing his friends appear on the scanner turns to shock as they sprawl in the sand.) 
STEVEN: Doctor! Sara!

[Outside the Tardis]

(Steven rushes outside. The Tardis now stands in harsh desert, buffeted by gale force winds and flying detritus. He looks around for his companions. Finally an indistinct shape catches his attention.) 
STEVEN: Dust! It's all crumbling into dust. 
(Steven stumbles over to where Sara lies, unmoving. Before he can reach her a gust of wind seems to lift her up. He watches in horror as her skin and hair fade away, her bones dispersing as dust on the wind.) 
STEVEN: Sara! 
(Steven staggers over towards the Doctor. As he does so, he feels the effects of the time destructor working on him too. There is very little time left. The time destructor lies half buried in the dust. Steven falls to his knees and attempts to smash it. Then he flicks a switch on the side of the device. When nothing seems to happen, Steven abandons it and makes once more for the Doctor, who appears to have rejuvenated slightly and is again making an effort to get himself back to the Tardis.) 
STEVEN: Come on, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No, don't touch me. 
STEVEN: I must help you. 
DOCTOR: You must get back to the ship! Go forward. 
(Steven grabs the Doctor and with a supreme effort manages to help him to his feet. Together they stumble through the screaming winds towards the ship. With every step they feel their youth and strength returning, and finally they reach the sanctuary of the Tardis.)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Close the door. Thank you, my friend. Thank you, Steven. By chance, you reversed the time destructor. Instead of time rushing forward, it's now racing back. Sara? You realise she came to look for me, to see if I was all right? 
STEVEN: I was forcing my way through the jungle. I didn't even see her go. 
DOCTOR: The Daleks! 
(The Doctor and Steven watch as the Dalek patrol appears on the scanner. Approaching the Tardis, the Daleks are moving much more slowly than normal.)

[Outside the Tardis]

( In an attempt to destroy the weapon they fought so hard to acquire, one of the Daleks fires at it. The time destructor is unharmed by the blast. Hurricane force winds spin the Daleks around and out of control. As time continues to race backwards, the Daleks start to decay. Their metal casings split and melt away, briefly revealing the clawed mutants inside. Helpless, the creatures scream, reduce to embryonic state then turn to dust. The ground shudders and heaves.) 
(After a time, the Doctor and Steven emerge from the Tardis. The landscape of Kembel has been devastated and reshaped beyond all recognition.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, dust. Nothing but dust! 
(Steven finds a chunk of twisted rusting metal lying on the ground.) 
STEVEN: The time destructor, what's left of it. 
DOCTOR: Mavic Chen's taranium core has finally burnt itself out. 
STEVEN: I wish Sara could have seen the end. 
DOCTOR: Yes, my boy, so do I. You know, Steven, the one thing that Sara lived for was to see the total destruction of the Daleks. Well, now it's all over. Without her help, this could never have been achieved. 
(The Doctor notices something in the sand and reaches down to scoop it up in his hand.) 
STEVEN: What is it? 
DOCTOR: Millions of years of progress reversed back. 
(The Doctor opens his hand to show Steven a tiny dead embryo.) 
DOCTOR: That's all that remains of a Dalek. 
STEVEN: Let's go, Doctor. I've seen enough of this place. 
DOCTOR: Well, my boy, we finally rid this planet of Daleks. 
STEVEN: Bret, Katarina, Sara. 
DOCTOR: What a waste. What a terrible waste. 
(They go into the Tardis and it dematerialises.)

[Outside the Tardis]

(The peace of a hot August day is disturbed as the Tardis makes an unusually discreet landing near the Rue de Bethisy.) 
DOCTOR: Highly satisfactory.
STEVEN: If anyone opens that gate they'll find the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Oh nonsense, my boy. It's perfectly safe in there. Yes, France. Yes, most certainly. 
STEVEN: Well how do you know that? 
DOCTOR: Hmm! 
(The Doctor points to a sign reading Rue de Bethisy.) 
STEVEN: Date? Any idea of the date, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, by the look of those houses I would say medieval. Although I suppose it might be as late as the seventeenth century. I 
STEVEN: Look out! 
(A man comes into sight, walking purposefully to one of the nearby houses. He knocks on the door, and it is opened.) 
GASTON: Nicholas Muss is expecting me. 
MAN: Ah yes. Of course. 
(The man goes inside.) 
DOCTOR: Did you see that? We've landed in the middle of the sixteenth century. Yes, and that was the very time. 
STEVEN: What are you talking about? 
DOCTOR: Yes. That strange brotherhood of apothecaries. Way ahead of their time. Now, what was the name of that man that lived in Paris? Er, Pre, Preslin! Preslin! That's the man. Yes. The most advanced man of them all. I must try to get to see him.

[de Coligny's house]

GASTON: You're too cautious, Nicholas. The Catholics know of only one way to settle our differences. 
MUSS: Times are difficult enough for us here, without you provoking further quarrels. 
GASTON: I? Oh, come, be fair. Paris hates our kind. It would do anything it can to provoke us. 
MUSS: You must control your temper, Gaston. It is imperative that we keep the peace at this time.

[Outside the Tardis]

STEVEN: We're in Paris. 
DOCTOR: Quite so, dear boy. Well, now, don't let us dawdle. We must go in and change. 
STEVEN: Well, have you got the right clothes? 
DOCTOR: You'd be surprised what I've got in my wardrobe. But I want to turn over a few old papers. Yes, come along, there's no time to lose. Come along. Come along, come along!

[Tavern]

GASTON: Now. Now, is everybody's mug filled? 
ALL: Yes. 
GASTON: Then drink to Henri of Navarre, our Protestant prince. 
ALL: Henri of Navarre! 
DUVALL: And to his bride, our Catholic princess. 
(Someone splutters into his drink.) 
GASTON: Landlord! 
LANDLORD: Yes, sir? 
GASTON: Have you got no decent wine? Where are the Burgundies? Or even the German wines? 
LANDLORD: Sir, we have the best Bordeaux on the market. 
GASTON: A thin Catholic brew. 
MUSS: Gaston, no! 
DUVALL: For a freethinking German, Monsieur Muss, you have some sense. Viscount, you have insulted her Highness the Princess. 
GASTON: Simon Dubar, what a surprise. No doubt you visit this tavern because the air is clearer of rigid Catholic dogma? 
DUVALL: You have not answered me. 
GASTON: Answered you? I wasn't aware you'd asked me a question. 
DUVALL: The insult to Princess Marguerite. 
MUSS: It was an accident. He choked. 
DUVALL: Well, then, Drink again to her. 
MUSS: Yes. We both will. To the Princess. 
(Some business that causes laughter in the tavern. Simon Duvall, Catholic aide to the Abbot of Amboise, takes the landlord aside.) 
DUVALL: Most of them are in the service of the Admiral de Coligny? 
LANDLORD: I have to serve them, sir. I hate these Huguenots as much as the next man, but I have to live. 
DUVALL: Certainly you must serve them, but watch and listen. Report to me anything you hear or see. 
LANDLORD: Certainly, anything, sir. Here in Paris we know what is right. Though people like myself with a living to earn? 
DUVALL: Of course. But watch your business. 
GASTON: Duvall, leaving us so soon? Can't you stomach the wine here? 
DUVALL: I have business elsewhere. After all, my dear Viscount, a tavern is a place where a gentleman may refresh himself, while simpler people amuse him with their badinage. 
(The Doctor and Steven enter.) 
DOCTOR: It won't be of the least interest to you, dear boy. Landlord! Wine. 
STEVEN: Look, I'm not going to sit in the Tardis whilst you gallivant around Paris. 
DOCTOR: I shall do nothing of the sort. I am going to visit Preslin. He lives on the other side of Paris, somewhere near Port Saint Martin, I believe. Thank you. I just want to sit down and have a talk with him about his work. Are you interested in germinology? 
STEVEN: I don't know. What is it? 
DOCTOR: Well, there you are, you see. And you know nothing about the period do you? You'd only be found out for the man that you are. 
STEVEN: Look, I'll be careful. I'm perfectly capable of of looking after myself. I'll just walk around Paris and see the sights. 
DOCTOR: Well, in that case I shan't visit Preslin. 
STEVEN: Oh don't be silly. You can't wait to talk to him. Come on, you go. I'll be all right. 
DOCTOR: Well. 
STEVEN: You'll never forgive yourself if you don't. 
DOCTOR: But you promise me you won't get into trouble? 
STEVEN: Yes, of course. 
DOCTOR: Well try not to talk to anyone. And come back here this evening and we'll go off to the Tardis together. 
STEVEN: Yes, all right. Now, you go and find your Monsieur Preslin. 
DOCTOR: Quite, quite. You'll need that. 
(He throws Steven some coins.) 
STEVEN: Oh, thanks. 
DOCTOR: And don't cut yourself with that sword. 
(The Doctor turns to leave, and bumps into someone in the doorway.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, I beg your pardon, sir. 
(The man turns on his heel and leaves. Steven observes this, and feeling that something is wrong, makes to follow him but is spotted by the landlord.) 
LANDLORD: Here, you! It is customary, sir, to pay for the wine consumed. 
STEVEN: Oh, oh, yes, of course. Here, take this. 
LANDLORD: The wine is two sous. I cannot change this. 
STEVEN: That's all I have. 
LANDLORD: I cannot change gold. 
MUSS: Can I help you? You're a stranger here. 
STEVEN: Yes. This man won't change my money. 
LANDLORD: I ask for two sous and he gives me an ecu. I cannot change ecu coin. 
MUSS: Here. 
LANDLORD: Thank you, sir. 
MUSS: Is that Parisian hospitality? 
LANDLORD: What do you mean, sir? 
MUSS: The gentleman's ecu. 
LANDLORD: A thousand apologies. I wasn't thinking. 
STEVEN: Oh. Thank you. I'm afraid I don't understand your money. 
MUSS: Not at all. 
STEVEN: Excuse me. 
MUSS: Yes? 
STEVEN: Can you tell me the way to the Port Saint Martin? 
MUSS: Certainly, but as a stranger to Paris I think you'll have difficulty finding it. 
STEVEN: Yes. Well, I've got to try. You see I must find a man called Preslin. 
MUSS: I'm sorry. I don't know the name. Is anything wrong? 
STEVEN: Well, I don't know. You see the friend who was with me has gone there. When he left here it looked as though he was followed. 
MUSS: The old man? 
STEVEN: Yes. You see, he's gone to find an apothecary there. 
MUSS: Is he sick? 
STEVEN: Oh, no, no, no. He's a scientist. He's gone to talk to him about his idea. 
MUSS: A dangerous thing to do in days like these. 
STEVEN: Oh, well, perhaps it doesn't matter. He'll be able to take care of himself. He usually does. 
MUSS: In that case you needn't worry. 
STEVEN: No. 
MUSS: I don't think you're sure. Look, come and drink some wine with us and later I'll take you to the Port Saint Martin. 
STEVEN: Oh, no, thank you. But, well, I don't want to intrude. I mean 
MUSS: Nonsense, come and join us. Later, we'll make sure your friend is safe. 
STEVEN: Well, thank you. I'm afraid I've never been in Paris before. 
MUSS: Allow us to be your guides.

[Preslin's shop]

(Inside the shop owned by Charles Preslin, a man is gathering supplies and placing them carefully in a large bag. He seems nervous	, in a hurry to complete his task and get out. There is a knock at the door. The man looks up in alarm and makes no move to answer the door. The caller knocks again. The door is unlocked and the Doctor enters uninvited.) 
PRESLIN: What do you want? 
DOCTOR: I am looking for Charles Preslin. 
PRESLIN: He doesn't live here. 
DOCTOR: Oh, but this is his shop? 
PRESLIN: It was. He's gone. 
DOCTOR: Where? 
PRESLIN: He's left Paris. 
DOCTOR: Oh dear, dear, dear. Now isn't that a pity. And I did so want to talk to him about his work. 
PRESLIN: Make more trouble for him? 
DOCTOR: Trouble? Not at all. I'm a scientist too. I merely wish to discuss his work with him. 
PRESLIN: He was merely a mixer of herbs and unguents. 
DOCTOR: Yes, perhaps to you, but he was a man who searched deeply in nature. I didn't think he was a faint heart. 
PRESLIN: No, but cautious. 
DOCTOR: I see. Yes. He also discovered, small creatures which, if attacking humanity, could cause a very serious illness. 
PRESLIN: You're not French. 
DOCTOR: No. 
PRESLIN: Yet you know of Preslin? 
DOCTOR: Yes. In science, news travels. Yes. And there's a man in Germany at the moment, who's working on optics, trying to make a machine which will enable Preslin to see these small creatures. He calls them germs. 
PRESLIN: Is it so? Are they really doing this? 
DOCTOR: Yes. So now, doesn't this encourage you to continue with your theories, Monsieur Preslin? 
PRESLIN: Yes, I, I am Charles Preslin. Forgive me, but in these days one has to be careful. 
DOCTOR: Of course, of course, my dear fellow. But I'm extremely curious about your work, Monsieur Preslin.

[Tavern]

MUSS: Don't mind Gaston, Steven. He's like this with any stranger. In fact, he'd cross-question his own shadow. 
GASTON: Don't mock me, Nicholas. I'm in France to protect my master, Henri of Navarre, just as you are to protect de Coligny. 
MUSS: You're too suspicious. Steven's been travelling abroad. He knows nothing about what's been happening here. Do you? 
STEVEN: No, no. I really do know very little. 
GASTON: Yes, but as you come from England you must be for the Huguenot. What you call a Protestant. 
STEVEN: Oh, yes, yes. 
GASTON: There, you see? It's just that I'm interested in our friend. Now tell us where you've been travelling. 
STEVEN: Well, I've been, I've been in Egypt. 
GASTON: In Egypt? 
STEVEN: Yes. Look, I've taken up far too much of your time. Perhaps you'd be good enough to tell me the way to the Port Saint Martin? 
MUSS: I'll come with you and show you the city. 
STEVEN: Thank you, but I really should try and find my friend. 
GASTON: Wise man. Nicholas here only knows the most boring places. 
MUSS: At least let me point out the start of your journey. 
STEVEN: Yes, thank you.

[Paris]

(In another part of the city, a young servant girl, Anne Chaplet, bursts from the door of a fine house. She's clearly terrified and runs frantically, pursued by a squad of guards determined to catch her and take her back to the house. Tearing helter-skelter through the crowded streets, Anne still cannot shake off her pursuers.)

[Outside the Tavern]

MUSS: When you get there, ask again. Anyone will tell you. 
STEVEN: I think I can find it now. Thank you, Nicholas. 
MUSS: A pleasure. 
(At that moment Anne, still running for her life, dashes into the street and bumps into Steven. Terrified, she dodges past him and inside the tavern with the guards close behind her.)

[Tavern]

CAPTAIN: Let us pass, sir! 
GASTON: And what do you want? 
CAPTAIN: The girl who came in here. 
GASTON: My Lord Cardinal's guard aren't you? What does he want with a wench? 
CAPTAIN: She's a servant. She ran away. I have orders to bring her back. 
GASTON: She doesn't appear to care for the Cardinal's service. I suggest you let her go. 
CAPTAIN: She is chosen for the staff of the house of the Abbot of Amboise. 
GASTON: Clearly, she likes that no more. 
CAPTAIN: Let me pass! My Lord Abbot shall hear of this when he arrives. 
GASTON: Yes I'm sure he will. Tell him to take this story to our Cardinal in Rome. No doubt he'll like it also. 
(The Captain leaves the tavern.) 
GASTON: There now. I thought he might be roused. What a pity. Hey, come, Mister Englishman. Join us again. It's clearly not safe for you to walk alone. 
STEVEN: Yes, but what about the girl? Where is she? 
GASTON: She's just a servant. A chance to bait a Catholic. Forget her. Come, come, come.

[Preslin's shop]

DOCTOR: But, who is this Abbot? 
PRESLIN: The Abbot of Amboise. He hates us all. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose just now all churchmen are rather suspicious of your work. But surely you can carry on without his knowledge? 
PRESLIN: Oh, you don't know the man. The Abbot of Amboise is the Cardinal of Lorraine's right hand. With the Cardinal in Rome, the Abbot has decided to come to Paris. We shall be hunted down. That man is far more dangerous than the Cardinal. 
DOCTOR: I suppose there's no point in going to see him? 
PRESLIN: None, unless you want to be thrown in prison for heresy. 
DOCTOR: Hmm, I wonder.

[Tavern]

STEVEN: The girl was clearly frightened out of her wits. We should find her. 
GASTON: Nonsense. She's probably gone back to her own people. 
STEVEN: But don't you want to know why she was frightened? 
GASTON: No. 
MUSS: Many things frighten people in Paris these days. 
GASTON: Hey, hey, hey, you, girl. Come here. Come on. Now then. My friend here, whom you ran into, wants to know why you're frightened. Come on, girl. 
STEVEN: For goodness sake, you're frightening her even more. 
MUSS: It's all right. Just tell us what it is you fear. 
ANNE: Nothing, sir. 
STEVEN: Yes, but you were running away. Why? 
GASTON: Louis, call back the guards. 
ANNE: No! 
GASTON: Then answer us! Why were you frightened? 
ANNE: Just something I overheard, sir. 
GASTON: What? 
ANNE: Well, you see, I come from Vassy. And when they said it might happen again. 
GASTON: What's that? 
ANNE: They said it would happen again, and my father died there. 
GASTON: Vassy? 
MUSS: Calm down, Gaston. 
GASTON: What did you hear? 
ANNE: I was just passing the room and I heard them mention Vassy. 
GASTON: What did they say? 
ANNE: Something about it happening before the week was past. 
GASTON: Who spoke? 
ANNE: The Captain who followed me inside and another man. 
GASTON: Now tell us exactly what you heard. 
ANNE: Just, just the word that made me stop, sir. My father died at Vassy and 
GASTON: Yes, yes, I know, but 
STEVEN: What are you all talking about? 
MUSS: Ten years ago at Vassy, a small town some miles south of Paris, a hundred Huguenots were slaughtered by the Catholics. 
STEVEN: Why? 
GASTON: Because they were Huguenot. 
MUSS: Listen, girl. What do they call you? 
ANNE: Anne. 
MUSS: Anne, think back. Remember every single word the Captain and the other man said. 
ANNE: But I told you. 
GASTON: Then tell us again.

[Abbot's residence]

DUVALL: Fool! To allow the meddlesome Viscount de Leran to stop you! 
CAPTAIN: There were too many of them. They'd have killed us before we even found the girl. 
COLBERT: The girl is just a servant. She couldn't have understood us. 
DUVALL: If she should remember what you said and should repeat it, she could put our friend on his guard. 
COLBERT: We didn't speak of him. 
DUVALL: Then what did you say to frighten the girl? 
CAPTAIN: Nothing. 
DUVALL: Servants don't run away from a house in fear for nothing. 
CAPTAIN: I think we mentioned Vassy and the celebrations here in Paris, but nothing that anyone could've made head or tail of. 
DUVALL: She made something of it! Vassy. That might have been it. That word alone is enough to put every Huguenot in Paris on his guard. 
COLBERT: I will go and look for her. 
DUVALL: You will not. You will wait here and report this to the Abbot. It was your mistake. I'm sure he'll want to congratulate you himself. 
COLBERT: But. Very well. 
DUVALL: And you. Find out if she has any relations in Paris. If she has, seek them out and find if she's fled there. That girl must be found.

[Tavern]

GASTON: She can't help us any more. You can go. 
MUSS: No, wait. If the Catholics find her, they can easily discover what she's told us. We must keep her out of sight. 
GASTON: And just what do you propose to do with her? 
MUSS: She can work in the Admiral's kitchen. They won't find her there. Go to the house of the Admiral de Coligny. Tell them that Nicholas Muss sent you. 
ANNE: Where's that, sir? 
GASTON: Oh, no one is more ignorant than the common people of Paris. The Admiral of France lives on the corner of Rue de Bethisy and the Rue de la Brousette. 
ANNE: Thank you, sir. 
STEVEN: But what do they mean, these things she overheard? 
GASTON: A threat to Navarre. I must warn him. I'll see you later, Nicolas. 
MUSS: I'm afraid you've arrived in Paris at a most unfortunate time. 
STEVEN: I wish I understood what was going on. 
MUSS: My English friend, it's really quite simple. Henri of Navarre is a Huguenot, a Protestant prince. Yesterday he married Marguerite of France, a Catholic. The marriage was arranged by the Queen Mother in the hope that it would heal the religious wound that's tearing France in two. But in the light of what that girl overheard, it looks as if the Catholics are plotting against Navarre's life. Do you understand? 
STEVEN: Yes. Yes, I think I do. 
MUSS: And now, I must leave you. I must see the Admiral at once. Forgive me that I cannot show you Paris. 
STEVEN: Oh, I shall be all right. Besides, my friend should be returning soon. 
MUSS: Pleasant journey. Goodbye. 
STEVEN: Goodbye.

[Preslin's shop]

(Preslin receives another visitor, a young boy.) 
PRESLIN: You showed the old man the way? Good. I only hope he succeeds. You were not seen? Let's hope not. You've done well. 
(The boy leaves.) 
PRESLIN: Good luck, old man. Good luck.

[Tavern]

(Steven has spent several hours alone at the tavern and is growing increasingly impatient and anxious. He paces about restlessly, unable to shake the feeling that something has happened to the doctor, yet powerless to do anything but wait. Then Simon Duvall returns to the inn and seeks out the landlord to question him.) 
DUVALL: Where's the girl? 
LANDLORD: The girl? 
DUVALL: The girl who fled in here this morning. What's happened to her? 
LANDLORD: I don't know. I was down in the cellar and when I came up, there she was being questioned by the Huguenots. 
DUVALL: The Viscount de Laran and Nicholas Muss? 
LANDLORD: Yes, and another man. 
DUVALL: Who? 
LANDLORD: He's still here. Over there. 
DUVALL: Who is he? 
LANDLORD: I don't know. A stranger. English, I think. 
DUVALL: Go on. 
LANDLORD: The Viscount left hurriedly once they'd finished with the girl. 
DUVALL: And where is she now? 
LANDLORD: Sir, it is difficult to hear everything. I must watch over the whole tavern. 
DUVALL: Haven't I paid you enough? 
LANDLORD: Oh come, sir. 
DUVALL: What happened to the girl? 
LANDLORD: She, I remember. She was sent to the house of Admiral de Coligny. 
DUVALL: I see. Thank you, my friend. Good evening. A stranger to this city? 
STEVEN: Yes. 
DUVALL: I thought you must be. Most wise people are at home by this time. It's almost time for the curfew. 
STEVEN: The curfew? 
DUVALL: Yes, an unfortunate necessity which even the marriage of Protestant Henri to our great King's sister hasn't been able to rectify. 
STEVEN: Look, I'm sorry, but I don't understand. I'm on my way back to England. I really know very little of what's been going on here. 
DUVALL: I trust you've found yourself somewhere comfortable to stay while you're here. Apartments are hard to find at this time, Paris being so full for the celebrations. 
STEVEN: I shall be all right. I'm leaving tonight. I'm just waiting for a friend. 
DUVALL: I hope he comes soon, otherwise you won't be able to leave. 
STEVEN: I expect we'll be all right, thanks. 
DUVALL: Good. He's waiting for a friend. Watch and see who it is. 
STEVEN: Nicholas! 
MUSS: Steven! Steven, you're still here. Where's your friend? 
STEVEN: I don't know. He said he'd meet here tonight. He hasn't arrived yet. 
MUSS: But it's time for the curfew. Where will you stay if he doesn't come? 
STEVEN: I don't know. I'm sure he will come. 
(A bell tolls.) 
MUSS: There's the curfew now. You must come with me. You can always come back here in the morning. Landlord? 
LANDLORD: Yes sir? 
MUSS: If an old man arrives asking for the Englishman, tell him he's lodging with the Admiral de Coligny, and will return here in the morning. 
LANDLORD: Yes, sir. Certainly, sir. 
STEVEN: Look, this is very kind of you but I'm sure he will come. 
MUSS: Not now. He must be delayed somewhere. There's nothing we can do tonight. 
STEVEN: No, I suppose you're right. He's probably got sidetracked. He often does. All right, thank you. I will accept your offer. 
MUSS: Then come. 
DUVALL: English. I wonder what they're up to? I shall want a full report in the morning on all that happens.

[Abbot's apartments]

(At the apartments of the Abbot of Amboise) 
COLBERT: And that is what happened. If it hadn't been for the Viscount de Laran the Captain would almost certainly have caught her. It was pure mischance. 
(The Abbot bangs his staff impatiently on the floor.) 
COLBERT: I'm sure she couldn't have made any sense of what we said. Simon Duvall has gone to the inn where she escaped and the Captain has gone to find an aunt of hers. I'm certain that it's only a matter of time. In fact one of them may be bringing her back here now. 
(Duvall enters.) 
DUVALL: Forgive me, Father Abbot, but the missing girl is at the house of Admiral de Coligny. 
(The Abbot turns.) 
ABBOT: Fetch her tomorrow. Bring her to me. 
(The Abbot is the spitting image of the Doctor)

Episode Two - The Sea Beggar

[de Coligny's house]

GASTON: I tell you, Nicholas, he refuses to take any precautions. Our noble lord, Henri of Navarre, will not believe that the Catholics are plotting to kill him. 
MUSS: Is that so surprising? He's married to the King's sister! He must put on a show of trusting the Catholics. 
GASTON: Trust them? Ha! You know how far we can do that. You told him what that girl overheard? 
MUSS: Yes. 
GASTON: What did he say? 
MUSS: He refuses to pay any attention to a servant girl's story. 
GASTON: But we must convince them. Nicholas, you are the man's secretary. Now speak to de Coligny again, now tell him 
MUSS: I've done what I can. Now we must wait until we find out something more, or for the Catholics to make a move. 
GASTON: Their move is likely to be a knife in Navarre's back. What happened to that Englishman, Steven? 
MUSS: He's gone back to the tavern to find his friend.

[Tavern]

(There is a thumping on the closed door.) 
STEVEN: Excuse me. I wonder if? (the door is opened) Landlord, has anyone asked for me? 
LANDLORD: What's that? Oh, it's you, Monsieur. 
STEVEN: The friend I was waiting for last night, have you seen him? 
LANDLORD: Not today. 
STEVEN: But didn't he return last night and leave a message? 
(The landlord closes the door again after Steven enters.) 
LANDLORD: I haven't seen your friend since you left with him at the curfew last night. 
STEVEN: Not that friend, I'm looking for the old man, the one who was here with me here yesterday morning. Well, he should have met me here last night. Look, he was wearing a large travelling cloak and carrying a silver-top cane. 
LANDLORD: No one's been here. We're closed. 
STEVEN: Not last night or this morning? 
LANDLORD: No, and I've got work to do. If you need help go and ask it of your Huguenot friends.

[de Coligny's house]

MUSS: For goodness sake, Gaston. It's quite likely we drew the wrong conclusions. 
GASTON: Look, the girl overheard the men talking about Vassy, and it would happen again before the week was out. 
MUSS: No, she didn't. She heard them mention the name Vassy. And then, just before she ran away, she heard them say it would happen before the week was out. 
GASTON: What's the difference? 
MUSS: It's quite likely the name Vassy had nothing to do with the massacre there. And the it was referring to something else entirely. 
GASTON: Look, Nicholas, you can't 
(Steven is shown in by a servant.) 
STEVEN: Nicholas, I'm sorry to have to bother you again. 
MUSS: Don't worry. Antoine, bring another glass. 
ANTOINE: Yes, Monsieur. 
(Antoine leaves.) 
MUSS: You didn't find your friend? 
STEVEN: Well, no, I even went to the Tard, the place where we're to leave from. There wasn't any sign of him. 
GASTON: Well if he's fallen foul of the Catholics who roam about the streets, heaven help him. 
MUSS: Many of our followers are just as bad. 
GASTON: Oh, nonsense. 
MUSS: Pay no attention to Gaston. Now what can I do to help you? 
STEVEN: Well, my friend went to the Port Saint Martin as you know. I must try to find him there, but I'm afraid I can't remember your directions. 
MUSS: I'll come with you. 
STEVEN: Thanks. 
GASTON: But before you go, I think you have a visitor. 
MUSS: Who? 
GASTON: Roger Colbert. Recently appointed temporal secretary to the Abbot of Amboise during his stay in Paris. I'll wager he's come to fetch the girl. 
(Gaston opens the door to the new arrival.) 
GASTON: An unexpected visit, Monsieur Colbert. 
COLBERT: Nicholas Muss? 
MUSS: Yes? 
COLBERT: Forgive me for calling on you like this, but I believe that yesterday you were put to some inconvenience by a servant from the household of the Abbot of Amboise. 
MUSS: Inconvenience? 
COLBERT: I understand she overheard someone say something and was frightened by it. She ran away and I hear that you kindly gave her refuge in the Admiral's kitchens. 
GASTON: And what could the Abbot say that would frighten a servant so? 
COLBERT: The Abbot was not then in residence. She heard someone speak of Vassy and I believe that she was there when that unfortunate business took place. She was frightened, I suspect, by her own memory, rather than by anything she heard. 
GASTON: And do they discuss the slaughter at Vassy so glibly? 
COLBERT: People can talk of the town without referring to that. 
(A servant enters.) 
GASTON: Out, out, out, out, out. 
(The servant leaves.) 
COLBERT: But surely, that is the very girl. 
GASTON: That girl? 
COLBERT: Yes, her name is Anne Chaplet. Allow me take her with me. 
GASTON: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You really must be mistaken. That girl is called, um, er, um, Genevieve, and she's been working here ever since the Admiral came to Paris. 
COLBERT: I see. Forgive me for troubling you. 
(Colbert leaves.) 
STEVEN: That is the same man who followed my friend from the tavern. 
MUSS: You're sure? 
STEVEN: I'm positive. 
MUSS: But what could the Abbot of Amboise want with your friend? 
GASTON: Well, well, well, the Abbot has come himself, and all for the sake of a servant. 
(Nicolas and Steven join Gaston at the window, from where they can observe Roger Colbert talking to the Abbot in the street below. After a moment, the Abbot turns and his face is clearly visible.) 
STEVEN: But, but that's the Doctor. That's the Doctor talking to Roger Colbert. I must go to him. Thank you for all your help. 
GASTON: One moment! 
STEVEN: Yes? 
GASTON: You say that man is your friend? 
STEVEN: Yes. 
GASTON: And how long have you been working for the Abbot of Amboise? 
STEVEN: What? 
GASTON: The man talking to Colbert is the Abbot of Amboise. In what capacity do you serve him? 
STEVEN: What are you talking about? Well, that man's the Doc. At least. He's gone. It looked like the Doctor, but if you're certain 
GASTON: The certainty is that I don't like Catholic spies! 
STEVEN: I'm no spy. Listen to me. I thought that man was the Doctor. If you say it was the Abbot of Amboise, then I must be mistaken. 
MUSS: Perhaps. 
STEVEN: Look, Nicholas, I can prove that the Doctor looks like the Abbot. Show me the way to the Port Saint Martin. We'll go to the shop of Preslin the apothecary, and you'll meet the Doctor. 
GASTON: And walk straight into a Catholic trap! 
STEVEN: It's no trap! Nicholas, if I were a spy would I be such a fool as to betray myself like this? 
GASTON: Nicholas, it's no 
MUSS: I think he may be telling the truth. I'll come with you. 
GASTON: Yes, so will I. 
MUSS: No, stay here. If I don't come back, go to the Admiral. 
GASTON: Look, you're mad. Listen. 
MUSS: We have to find out! Come, Monsieur. And for your sake I hope we find your friend.

[The Louvre]

(In an anteroom, Marshall Gaspar Tavannes and Simon Duvall are discussing the latest turn of events.) 
TAVANNES: You say the Abbot went to the house himself? 
DUVALL: Yes, Marshall, he felt it was imperative to get the girl back. 
TAVANNES: The Abbot's a fool. The girl's not important. She must have told the Huguenots all that she knows. all that she overheard. If they'd made anything of it they'd have acted by now. All he's done is to arouse further suspicion. 
DUVALL: He's an astute man in some ways. After all, without him we wouldn't have got the help of Monsieur Bondeaux. 
TAVANNES: Bondeaux has yet to prove himself. Other assassins might do as well. 
DUVALL: His Eminence the Cardinal trusts the Abbot. 
TAVANNES: Yes, I'm not sure that I do. There's something odd about all this. Watch him closely, Simon. Make a note of everything he says or does, and report it to me. 
DUVALL: Yes, Marshall. There is another matter. Nicholas Muss is playing host to a young Englishman. 
TAVANNES: At de Coligny's house? Who is he? 
DUVALL: I don't know. 
TAVANNES: Hmm. Perhaps our fine Admiral is making secret overtures to the English? 
DUVALL: It seems that he's a stranger to France. 
TAVANNES: All the more reason why Elizabeth of England should send him. Find out more about this Englishman. Go now, and stay close to the Abbot. And Simon, tell him I shall bring word later concerning the Sea Beggar. 
DE COLIGNY: Interested in the Dutch at last, Marshall Tavannes? 
TAVANNES: Ah, Admiral De Coligny. I didn't hear you come in. 
DE COLIGNY: I hope you are looking into the plight of the unfortunate Dutch. The sea beggars as you call them. My fight with Spain is a just one. 
TAVANNES: So you frequently tell us in council. 
DE COLIGNY: Your only quarrel with the Dutch is that they are Protestant and not Catholic. 
TAVANNES: That could also be the reason why you support them. But rest assured, Admiral, we are examining their claim for France's aid. 
DE COLIGNY: That is something I suppose. 
TAVANNES: Tell me, have you any news from that other ally of yours, England? 
DE COLIGNY: No. Why should I? 
TAVANNES: Strange. I'd heard that you have an Englishman staying with you. 
DE COLIGNY: There was a lost stranger who lodged at my house last night. I believe he was English. 
TAVANNES: And he brought you no word? 
DE COLIGNY: You are an extraordinary man, Tavannes. You see shadows where there is no sun. 
TAVANNES: Perhaps. Forgive me, I have an audience with the Queen Mother. 
DE COLIGNY: Don't let me detain you.

[Port Saint Martin]

MUSS: We've been up and down every street in the Port Saint Martin. 
STEVEN: Preslin's shop must be around here somewhere. Look! 
(Steven rushes across the street, bumping into an old woman.) 
STEVEN: Sorry. 
(Steven knocks on a door.) 
WOMAN: Rushing about knocking folks down, You young gentlemen have no sense 
MUSS: Sorry, my friend's looking for someone. 
WOMAN: Well, that's no reason to go pushing me over. And you can stop making all that noise. You're disturbing the whole neighbourhood. Nobody lives there. 
MUSS: What? Monsieur Preslin doesn't use his shop? 
OLD LADY: Does it look like it? Nothing lives there except the rats. 
STEVEN: And where is Preslin now? 
MUSS: How long since he's lived here? 
WOMAN: Oh, a long time. Two years about. He was arrested for heresy. 
STEVEN: What? Do you mean, you mean he's in prison? 
WOMAN: Burnt I expect. And if he isn't, he should be. 
MUSS: Your story is thinner than before. You say the Doctor is with Preslin, who is by all accounts dead. 
STEVEN: She only said he might be. 
MUSS: And what about the Doctor? 
STEVEN: I don't know. 
MUSS: I think I do. Your friend is the Abbot of Amboise. 
STEVEN: No. At least, I don't see how he can be. Unless 
MUSS: What? 
STEVEN: It is just possible that the Doctor is pretending to be the Abbot. 
MUSS: For what reason? 
STEVEN: Wait until I find the Abbot. 
MUSS: So that you can get further instructions? 
STEVEN: Nicholas, please believe me. I know nothing about Vassy or the Catholics or half of what you talk about. If the Doctor is pretending to be the Abbot then it's for a very good reason. Please let me go to him. Should I find out there is a plot of some kind, I'll come back and tell you. 
MUSS: No, you'll come back with me now. There are others who should decide before I do. 
(Taking Steven firmly by the arm to ensure his cooperation, Nicholas guides him back the way they have come. But at the corner of the road, Steven sees his chance and twists round, sending Nicolas crashing into a passer-by. Then he pelts away down the street.

[Abbot's apartments]

DUVALL: Where is the Abbot? He knew I might bring word. I've been waiting here for over half an hour. 
COLBERT: He may be with Maurevert. 
DUVALL: Will you never learn? Call the assassin Bondeaux. If the Sea Beggar should find out Maurevert is in Paris he'd be put on his guard at once. Why do you think we've chosen code names so very carefully? 
COLBERT: I'm sorry. 
DUVALL: You've already been responsible for one mistake. There must be no more. 
COLBERT: I parted with the Abbot at de Coligny's house. He did not tell me where he was going. 
DUVALL: Oh, very well. Tell me what you know about the Abbot. 
COLBERT: He's been specially appointed by the Cardinal. 
DUVALL: I don't mean that. How long have you known him? 
COLBERT: I only met him yesterday, but he's worked for His Eminence the Cardinal of Lorraine for many years and has done him many services. 
DUVALL: You saw him for the first time yesterday? 
COLBERT: No, I met him for the first time. I saw him once at an encyclical meeting held by the Cardinal. 
DUVALL: And that was the only time you've seen him? 
COLBERT: Yes. 
DUVALL: Tell me. When you saw Nicholas Muss this morning, who else was there? 
COLBERT: The Viscount de Laran, and the girl is certainly there, because I saw her. 
DUVALL: She's of no importance now. No one else was with them? 
COLBERT: A third man, but I didn't know him. 
DUVALL: Was he English? 
COLBERT: I don't know. He didn't speak. 
DUVALL: I want you to find out about him. If he is English, find out who he is and what his business is in France.

[de Coligny's house]

ANNE: Like I said, Monsieur, I never seen him before in my life. I just ran into him when the Abbot's guards were after me and I thought he was one of them. 
MUSS: Why? 
ANNE: Well, because I was frightened and and when he held out his arms as if to stop me, and I thought he was one of them, but he isn't. 
MUSS: How do you know? 
ANNE: Because he's kind, Monsieur, and gentle. 
(Gaston enters.) 
GASTON: Nicholas, you're back. How was the Port Saint Martin? 
MUSS: Be quiet Gaston! Now listen. 
GASTON: Well, there's a welcome. I've got good news. Henri of Navarre has decided to increase his guard. 
MUSS: And I have bad news. Steven's escaped. He must've been sent here by the Catholics. 
ANNE: That's not true! 
GASTON: What's that? 
ANNE: Forgive me, Monsieur, but, well I'm sure he's a stranger here. He knows nothing about anything or or what's going on in Paris. Why, he don't even know about the royal wedding. 
GASTON: Get out of here. 
ANNE: But, Monsieur 
GASTON: Get out! 
(Anne leaves.) 
GASTON: You're too kind to these nothings. Now, tell me what's been happening. 
MUSS: We didn't find the man who's supposed to look like the Abbot. I was bringing Steven back here when he got away. 
GASTON: How? 
MUSS: We were on our way back when he suddenly tripped me and pushed me into a passer-by. I was taken by surprise. I went after him but it was hopeless. 
GASTON: I knew I should have come with you. Still, we know where to find him. 
MUSS: Yes, with the Abbot of Amboise.

[Outside the Abbot's apartments]

(By early evening, Steven has found his way to the apartments where the Abbot of Amboise is lodging. He is determined to find out what is going on, and is certain that the answers lie in the house with the man he believes to be the Doctor in disguise. Lurking in the shadows, Steven cautiously approaches the house. Two guards in the Abbot's livery pass close by and he's forced to hide. When they've gone, Steven spots a lighted window. Making sure the coast is clear, he climbs up and peers over the sill. In the room he can see Marshall Tavannes with Simon Duvall and Roger Colbert. There is no sign of the Abbot of Amboise. Steven decides to listen for a while. Perhaps he can overhear something of use.)

[Abbot's apartments]

TAVANNES: So my Lord Abbot is not here and you don't know where he is to be found? 
COLBERT: I'm afraid not, Marshall. 
TAVANNES: After my instructions to you earlier today I would have hoped that I could put more faith in you. 
COLBERT: I'm sorry but we did look everywhere. 
TAVANNES: There's a draught in here. Close those shutters. 
(Steven ducks back hurriedly as Roger closes the shutters, narrowly avoiding discovery.) 
TAVANNES: Between you, you will find the Abbot and you will give him this message for me. Say the decision has been made. 
DUVALL: You mean 
TAVANNES: You interrupt me, Simon. Tell him the Sea Beggar dies tomorrow. 
COLBERT: Tomorrow? Where? 
TAVANNES: He will attend an early council meeting at the Louvre. On his return, Bondeaux will be waiting for him. 
COLBERT: Do you wish that the Abbot instructs Bondeaux? 
TAVANNES: No. Bondeaux already has his orders. You may tell the Abbot that also, when you find him. Is that clear? 
COLBERT: Yes, Marshall. 
TAVANNES: Good. 
(Tavannes leaves.) 
DUVALL: So, the royal command has been given. 
COLBERT: What do you mean? 
DUVALL: That order didn't come from Marshall Tavannes. It came from the Queen Mother. 
(At the sound of approaching guards, Steven jumps down from the window and hurries away.)

[de Coligny's house]

(Steven is shown to Nicholas' quarters.) 
ANTOINE: He won't be long, Monsieur, if you'll wait in here. 
STEVEN: Thanks. 
(Antoine leaves. After a few moments the door opens) 
GASTON: Nicholas, there's. What are you doing? 
STEVEN: Listen, where is Nicholas? I have some important news. 
GASTON: I'm sure you have. And I've got some for you too. Get out of here! 
STEVEN: Look, you don't understand. 
GASTON: What placement are you looking for, a spy? Some more information for your Abbot? 
STEVEN: Listen to me! 
GASTON: I'd rather listen to a pack of screaming devils! 
STEVEN: Gaston! There is a 
GASTON: Get out of! 
STEVEN: For goodness sake. 
(Gaston pulls a sword on Steven, who to his alarm is forced to draw his own sword in an attempt to defend himself. Gaston lunges forward to attack, and Steven's blocking parry succeeds only by a fluke. Gaston continues to advance, his eyes burning with rage, but Steven retreats rapidly. He's no desire to get into a fight. At last Gaston realises that Steven will not fight him. Changing tactics, disgusted with the Englishman, Gaston disarms him with ease. Steven's sword clatters to the floor.) 
GASTON: Get out of here. 
STEVEN: Gaston 
GASTON: Get out! 
(Steven leaves and Gaston kicks the furniture in rage.) 
MUSS: Gaston, what are you doing? 
GASTON: Oh, you're having a very bad effect on me, my friend. I just spared that wretch's life. 
MUSS: What are you talking about? 
GASTON: That Englishman. 
MUSS: Steven? 
GASTON: Yes, I caught him here. 
MUSS: What did he say? 
GASTON: Say? Nothing. 
MUSS: But why did he come back? 
GASTON: He was spying. I caught him going through your papers. 
MUSS: He must have had a message otherwise he'd never have come back. 
GASTON: I tell you he was going through your papers. 
MUSS: Where did he go? 
GASTON: How should I know? Probably back to that animal from Amboise. 
MUSS: Steven said he'd come back here if he found out something important. Did he say anything? 
GASTON: Nothing! Well don't tell me you still trust him! 
MUSS: Oh, for pity's sake go back to the Louvre. Go back and protect your Lord of Navarre. It's almost time for the curfew.

[Street]

(Steven finds himself alone in Paris once more. For a while he wanders the streets aimlessly, trying to work out what his next move should be. He cannot risk returning to the house of de Coligny until he's certain Nicolas is at home, and even then he cannot be sure that Gaston will not have poisoned Nicholas against him. Despite this, Steven know that it is vital he tells the Huguenots what he's learnt about the plot to murder the Sea Beggar. As darkness falls he realises that he has no alternative but to return to the house. The curfew is due and he needs shelter for the night. He must hope that Nicholas will be prepared to listen to him. Steven is retracing his route back to the house when he senses that he's being followed. Steven hurries down a flight of steps then lies in wait in the shadows for his quarry to reach him. The bells are tolling.) 
ANNE: Oh! 
STEVEN: Anne, what are you doing following me? 
ANNE: I'm sorry, Monsieur, I didn't mean any harm. 
STEVEN: What are you doing here? The curfew's ringing. Go back to the house. 
ANNE: No. I can't go back there now. They'll know where to find me. I want to come with you. 
STEVEN: But you can't, I mean, and why? 
ANNE: You were kind to me. You're the first one that ever was. Please, don't send me back there. 
STEVEN: I can't take you with me. I've nowhere to go myself. 
ANNE: Well, I know Paris, I'll help you find somewhere. 
STEVEN: Well, I. Yes. Anne, do you know who the Sea Beggar is? 
ANNE: What? 
STEVEN: Who is the Sea Beggar? 
ANNE: I don't know, Monsieur. Why? 
STEVEN: He's going to be killed tomorrow. All right then, if you insist on coming with me, do you know where we can spend tonight? 
ANNE: We can't go to my aunt's. They'll be looking for me there. There must be lots of places in Paris where no one would think of finding me. 
STEVEN: Yes, of course, Preslin's shop. Do you know how to get to the Port Saint Martin? 
ANNE: Of course. 
STEVEN: Take me there. I've only been there once. I don't think I can find it on my own. 
ANNE: I'll show you.

[de Coligny's house]

MUSS: Admiral. 
DE COLIGNY: You're working late. 
MUSS: I thought you were asleep. 
DE COLIGNY: Nonsense. I've been with the King. 
MUSS: Do you wish to give me some notes? 
DE COLIGNY: No, not tonight. I think I've persuaded him. 
MUSS: You've got the King to agree to war with Spain? 
DE COLIGNY: It's possible. If he doesn't change his mind by the morning, we are to join with the Dutch. Do you know, Nicholas, after I'd explained the situation to him, he turned to me and he said, if we do ally ourselves with the Dutch, you, de Coligny, will go down to history as the Sea Beggar. The Sea Beggar. It's a title I'd be proud of.

Episode Three - Priest of Death

[Preslin's shop]

(Anne is searching for something to eat, and disturbs Steven as he sleeps.) 
STEVEN: Oh, it's only you. What's the time? 
ANNE: Oh, I'm sorry, Monsieur. I didn't mean to wake you, I, I 
STEVEN: Never mind. What time is it? 
ANNE: It's dawn, Monsieur. The tocsin's rung. Curfew's over. 
STEVEN: And the Sea Beggar dies today. 
ANNE: Are we going to leave Paris now? 
STEVEN: No. No, I'm sorry, Anne, but I must go back to the Abbot's house. 
ANNE: No! Monsieur, no! 
STEVEN: I must! Now my friend should be there by now. He may know who the Sea Beggar is. 
ANNE: If you go back there, they'll arrest you. 
STEVEN: No, they won't. The Doctor should be able to stop them. 
ANNE: They'll recognise you before you can find him. The Captain of the Guard and Monsieur Colbert. 
STEVEN: Hmm. Perhaps if I disguise. See if we can find some other clothes. 
(They rummage through a chest of clothes.) 
STEVEN: Yes, well, this should do. 
ANNE: Ugh, but it's so dirty, Monsieur. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, never mind. Now, if I can find that hat. 
ANNE: Monsieur? 
STEVEN: Oh, good girl. Yes, well, I don't think the Captain'll recognise me in this.

[Council Chamber]

(In the Council Chamber at the Louvre, King Charles is in consultation with his advisors, de Coligny, Toligny and Marshall Tavannes.) 
DE COLIGNY: If we ally ourselves to the Dutch in their conflict with Spain, the common cause will unify the country, and prevent further civil strife. 
TAVANNES: Oh, surely the marriage between Henri of Navarre and His Majesty's sister have already put an end to the disturbances? 
DE COLIGNY: For how long? As I have pointed out frequently in this chamber, it would take but one small incident and the whole of Paris could be in uproar. 
TAVANNES: Incidents occur daily, yet still the city does not rise. 
DE COLIGNY: If we allied ourselves with the Dutch even those incidents would not take place. 
CHARLES: My Admiral has a good point there. Pray accept it, Marshall, and let us finish with this tedious business. 
TAVANNES: Your Majesty, France cannot afford this war. 
CHARLES: So we are told frequently by our mother. 
TAVANNES: The recent conflicts inside the country have brought us almost to ruin. There is no money to pay for the forces that would be needed to wage war with Spain. 
TOLIGNY: But is it not so that under the treaty signed at Loire, the English will come to our assistance? 
CHARLES: Not you as well, my little Councillor? The Admiral and the Marshall quarrel well enough without assistance. 
TOLIGNY: I apologise, Sire. I had hoped to end the deadlock between them. 
CHARLES: It was good to hear a different voice. So, Elizabeth of England has agreed to help us? 
TAVANNES: Does anyone here trust her? She breaks more promises than she keeps. 
DE COLIGNY: She has no love for Spain. 
TAVANNES: She has yet to come out into the open and say so. However, if Your Majesty is so eager to fight this war, perhaps we could raise the money by leasing the Alpine hunting grounds to Italy? 
CHARLES: Do you mock me, Marshall? 
TAVANNES: Of course not, Sire, but the war will have to be paid for. Some sacrifices will have to be made. 
CHARLES: We will give away nothing of our land. 
TOLIGNY: Besides, the bears there are French. They might not like to be sold. 
CHARLES: Ha! True. Next winter you will accompany us on our hunt. 
DE COLIGNY: Your Majesty, there is enough money in France to finance the war. 
CHARLES: Enough of this war. I am bored with Spain. 
DE COLIGNY: But I beg to advise Your Majesty 
CHARLES: No, Admiral, please talk of it some other time. War is so tedious. Move to matters closer to us. 
DE COLIGNY: If the King refuses to make war, may it please God that another war will not be forced on him, which it will not be easy to renounce.

[Preslin's shop]

ANNE: No, Monsieur. I won't stay here alone. 
STEVEN: Then you must come with me. 
ANNE: But they'll arrest me at the Abbot's house. 
STEVEN: They won't. Now look, I'm almost certain that my friend is pretending to be the Abbot. Now he'll make sure that no harm comes to you. 
ANNE: Oh, but Monsieur 
STEVEN: Now you must trust me. I'll take care of you. 
ANNE: You've been very kind to me, Monsieur, but, well, I'm afraid to go back to that house. 
STEVEN: Look, I'll be with you. Besides, you won't stay here, so where will you go? 
ANNE: Well, all right. I'll come with you. 
STEVEN: Look, if anything happens on the way to the Abbot, if I'm recognised then we'll have to run. Now you must come back here, do you understand? 
ANNE: But supposing they catch me? 
STEVEN: No, they won't. I'll be the one they chase. Now if you come back here I'll know where to find you, and I can join you as soon as possible. 
ANNE: All right. 
STEVEN: Good girl. Come on.

[Council Chamber]

DE COLIGNY: How much longer are the Huguenots to suffer these frequent violations of their rights? 
TAVANNES: The treaty drawn up by the Queen Mother to conclude the religious difficulties of the country was generous in the extreme to the free thinkers. 
DE COLIGNY: Words were spoken. Signatures were exchanged. But they did not prevent many acts against the Huguenots. 
TAVANNES: Do you question the promises of the Queen Mother, Admiral? 
DE COLIGNY: It is easy to promise. 
TAVANNES: You speak treason! 
CHARLES: Enough! Why is it not possible for our councillors to talk without quarrelling? 
DE COLIGNY: Sire, it is imperative that the religious differences of the country be fully discussed. 
CHARLES: Admiral, grant me but a few days more in which to amuse myself and then I promise you, as King, that I shall make you happy and all those of your religion. 
DE COLIGNY: Kings are recognised only by the power they wield. The Queen Mother seems to claim this power. Take care, Your Majesty, that it does not prove detrimental to yourself, and to France. 
TAVANNES: Your Majesty 
CHARLES: Tavannes, no more. 
CATHERINE: Marshall. 
(Taking their leave, Marshall Tavannes escorts the Queen Mother, Catherine de Medici, from the council chamber.) 
CHARLES: This meeting is over. Since my noble mother's seen fit to depart, let us do likewise. We need to get on the Feast of Saint Bartholomew, so until the day after tomorrow, let us enjoy ourselves. 
TOLIGNY: Was that wise? To insult the Queen will only make her work harder against you. 
DE COLIGNY: It was time her power was challenged. 
TOLIGNY: The King still fears his mother. Surely this may damage all for which you've worked so hard? 
DE COLIGNY: Let us hope not. 
CHARLES: Ha, ha! Admiral, come with us. We are going to play tennis. 
DE COLIGNY: Your Majesty, I must beg to be excused. I have work which must be done. 
CHARLES: Oh, my dear Admiral, we are pleased with you. Since now our mother will not speak to us for the rest of today, you will come with us. I have a new racquet I want you to see. Come.

[Abbot's apartments]

PRIEST: You will have to wait in here. The Abbot cannot be disturbed. 
STEVEN: Yes, but I must speak to him. It's most important. 
PRIEST: You do not understand, young man. The Abbot is saying his office. 
STEVEN: His what? 
PRIEST: His office. We cannot disturb him while he is at prayer. 
STEVEN: Well, how long's he going to be? 
PRIEST: You must curb your impatience, young man. If you will tell me what your business is, then perhaps I can help you. 
STEVEN: I have a message for the Abbot, concerning a man who is to die today. 
PRIEST: If it is a case for the last sacraments, then there is no need to trouble the Abbot. I, myself, will come with you. 
STEVEN: Well, no. I mean, I mean, it's very kind of you but 
PRIEST: Is there something more? 
STEVEN: Well, yes. And I can only discuss it with the Abbot. 
(The Abbot enters.) 
ABBOT: What is this? 
PRIEST: My Lord Abbot. 
STEVEN: Oh, Doctor! 
ABBOT: Silence! Who is this man, and why does he disturb my peace? 
PRIEST: It appears he comes from a dying man. 
ABBOT: Well? 
STEVEN: I've brought back the servant who ran away. 
ANNE: Monsieur! 
ABBOT: You have done well, my son. Father, you may leave us. I will settle this matter. 
PRIEST: Very well, my Lord Abbot. 
STEVEN: I felt you would be safer here, as Bondeaux waits for the Sea Beggar. 
(Tavannes enters.) 
TAVANNES: Lord Abbot, a word with you. 
ABBOT: The young man has returned the girl to us, Marshall. 
TAVANNES: What girl? 
ABBOT: The one who lodged with the Sea Beggar. 
TAVANNES: Oh, she is of no importance. I must speak with you alone. 
ABBOT: Very well. Take the girl and wait outside. I'll tend you later. 
(We move away from the conversation and the words become more indistinct.) 
TAVANNES: Is Bondeaux prepared? 
ABBOT: Of course. I never fail. Neither do my servants. 
TAVANNES: Is Bondeaux prepared to go to the Place Saint Germain? 
ANNE: Listen! 
ABBOT: Bondeaux has been prepared for the last two hours. 
STEVEN: Quick, we've got to tell Nicholas. 
(We return to the Abbot's conversation.) 
ABBOT: Is the Sea Beggar on his way home? 
TAVANNES: I don't know. The King delayed him after the council and he had seen fit to insult the Queen Mother and His Majesty was naturally pleased with him. 
ABBOT: de Coligny will allow no one to take him away from his work. I think we can take it he is on his way by now. 
COLBERT: The girl. The servant who ran away 
ABBOT: Colbert! How dare you interrupt us! 
COLBERT: But she is with the Englishman from the Admiral's house. I've just seen them. 
TAVANNES: What? 
COLBERT: The Englishman with the girl. He's the one who was with the Huguenots. 
TAVANNES: Who did he say he was? 
ABBOT: I never asked him. 
TAVANNES: Fetch them back. 
COLBERT: I've sent the guards after them. He was taking her out the side door. 
TAVANNES: My Lord Abbot, what mistake have you perpetrated now? 
ABBOT: He could not hear what was being said. I sent him out of the room. In any case, it is too late for him to warn the Admiral. 
TAVANNES: For your sake it had better be.

[de Coligny's house]

(Nicholas sits brooding in his room at de Coligny's house. He's certain that Steven was trying to get some kind of message to him, whatever Gaston may believe. Then, to his amazement, Nicholas spots the Englishman in the street below.) 
STEVEN [OC]: Will you get out of my way! 
MUSS: Come in, Steven! 
ANTOINE: But Monsieur, I cannot allow 
STEVEN: Nicholas! Quickly, it's the Admiral. 
ANTOINE: Monsieur, I am sorry 
MUSS: Be quiet! What's wrong? 
STEVEN: The plot! 
MUSS: The Catholics? 
STEVEN: Yes! It's the Admiral they're going to kill! 
MUSS: de Coligny? 
STEVEN: Today! Now! 
MUSS: But how? 
STEVEN: I don't know, but you've got to warn him. 
MUSS: He's at the Louvre. There's a council meeting. 
STEVEN: No, it's over. They're going to kill him on the way back. 
MUSS: Where? 
STEVEN: The Rue Saint, Saint Germain? 
MUSS: The Place Saint Germain? 
STEVEN: Yes! 
MUSS: Stay here!

[Street]

(The Rue de Foss Saint Germain is deserted at this time of day. The perfect site for an assassination attempt. In an attic room overlooking the street, the assassin, Maurevert, codename Bondeaux is preparing for the task ahead of him. He opens a case and takes from it an arquebus, a hand-held rifle of the latest design. Setting the arquebus on the tripod-like stand, Bondeaux trains the weapon on the street, and smiles. From his vantage point here he cannot fail to hit his target. At the end of the street, the Admiral de Coligny appears, returning home after the council meeting at the Louvre. He walks slowly, engrossed in a report he's reading. A group of courtiers follow him at a distance, talking quietly amongst themselves so as not to disturb him. Toligny is amongst them. Bondeaux fixes his sights on de Coligny and slowly squeezes the trigger. But a gust of wind snatches a page of the report from the Admiral's hand and he instinctively stoops to retrieve it just as Bondeaux fires the arquebus. de Coligny falls to the ground.) 
MUSS: Admiral! Admiral! 
DE COLIGNY: See how honest men are treated in France? The shot came from that window. 
MUSS: Search the house! We must get him to a surgeon! 
(The falling page saved de Coligny's life. The bullet only wounded him. As others hunt for Bondeaux, Nicholas and Toligny help the Admiral to his feet. But de Coligny is proud and shrugs off their supporting hands. Unsteady on his feet, bleeding profusely, he walks away unaided.)

[Abbot's apartments]

TAVANNES: We should have heard by now. 
ABBOT: The King may have delayed him further. 
TAVANNES: Due to your stupidity the Englishman has had a chance to warn him. 
ABBOT: I said he did not hear anything. 
TAVANNES: Then why did he run off? 
ABBOT: I don't know. 
TAVANNES: If this should go wrong, you are to blame, and you will be the one to answer for it. 
ABBOT: The Cardinal 
TAVANNES: Is in Rome and cannot help you now. 
ABBOT: If de Coligny is delayed by the King, then the news of his death will be delayed also. Bondeaux is an excellent marksman. You know that. There is only one thing for us to do, and that is to wait. Meantime, I will retire to my room. 
TAVANNES: You will not. You will wait here with me. 
(Reluctantly the Abbot obeys Marshall Tavannes and returns to his chair in silence. A moment later, the door bursts open and Roger Colbert rushes in.) 
COLBERT: Father Abbot. 
TAVANNES: Well? 
COLBERT: The attempt has failed. 
ABBOT: I see. Was Bondeaux caught? 
COLBERT: He rode away. But the Admiral was only wounded, not killed. 
TAVANNES: So, the Sea Beggar lives. You have failed! Call the guards! It is strange, Father Abbot, that since you came everything which had been so carefully planned has gone wrong. 
(Colbert returns with the guards.) 
TAVANNES: This man is a traitor to the Queen. Kill him. You heard my order, kill him! 
(The guards advance on the Abbot.)

[Council chamber]

CATHERINE: Monsieur De Toligny, I am waiting. 
TOLIGNY: I'm sorry, Your Majesty, but the news I have must be given first to the King. 
CHARLES: Now what's the matter? Why must I always be interrupted? And I was winning. 
TOLIGNY: Your pardon, Sire, but I bring news of the greatest importance. 
CHARLES: Well, what is it? 
TOLIGNY: Admiral de Coligny has been severely wounded. 
CHARLES: What? 
TOLIGNY: Someone tried to shoot him. 
CHARLES: Will I never have any peace! 
TOLIGNY: Your Majesty, the Admiral is badly hurt. 
CHARLES: What happened? 
TOLIGNY: The assassins were waiting in the Rue de Place Saint Germain. As we came down the street they fired at him. 
CHARLES: Were they caught? 
TOLIGNY: No, Sire. We searched the house and found the weapon, but the men had gone. 
CHARLES: Well, they must be found. An inquiry. Call the council. The Admiral's assassins must be caught and punished! Call the council!

[de Coligny's house]

DE COLIGNY: Oh, my head. 
MUSS: My little father. I will see you avenged. 
DE COLIGNY: Take me to my own room. Help me up. 
MUSS: No, Admiral, wait for the surgeon. He'll be here soon. 
DE COLIGNY: Why did they do it? 
ANTOINE: Monsieur, are you sure we should not take him to his own room? 
MUSS: No, he's lost too much blood. Go and wait for the surgeon. Bring him straight in. 
ANTOINE: Yes, Monsieur. 
STEVEN: Nicholas, I'm sorry. I tried to tell Gaston, he wouldn't listen to me. 
MUSS: I know, he told me. 
STEVEN: I knew that the Sea Beggar was going to be killed. Until this morning I didn't know who that was. 
MUSS: I could've told you. How did you find out? 
STEVEN: Oh, when I ran away from you yesterday, I went to the Abbot's house. Well, the Doctor wasn't there, but I overheard some men talking about the Sea Beggar. 
MUSS: Who were they? 
STEVEN: Oh, I don't know. But, well, one of them was the same man who came to see the Abbot this morning. 
MUSS: So the Abbot is behind this. 
STEVEN: No! The Abbot is the Doctor. Now that I've seen him I'm certain of it. He's just pretending to be the Abbot, that's all. 
MUSS: Now listen, Steven. 
TOLIGNY: How is he? 
MUSS: He's very weak. 
TOLIGNY: The King has called for an inquiry but it won't do any good. 
MUSS: What do you mean? 
TOLIGNY: As I left the Louvre I heard that some of our men have taken the law into their own hands. 
MUSS: How? 
TOLIGNY: The Abbot of Amboise was murdered just outside his own house. 
STEVEN: What? 
TOLIGNY: The Abbot is dead and they're blaming it on the Huguenots. 
STEVEN: But, he wasn't the Abbot! 
TOLIGNY: The King has summoned the council. I must return to the Louvre. Take care of him, Nicholas. 
MUSS: Of course.

[Council chamber]

CHARLES: And, Marshall, since you claim to know nothing of this attempted assassination, I have a special charge for you. You will be responsible for the Admiral's safety. Empty the street of Catholics, station your men around his house, and mark me well, if anything further happens to him, you pay with your head. 
TOLIGNY: We do not need the Marshall's protection, Sire. To drive Catholics from their homes will only make them hate us even more. 
TAVANNES: Is that possible? Your concern for your friends does you credit, Sire. 
CHARLES: I gave you an order! See it is done! 
TOLIGNY: But Sire. 
CHARLES: Not another word from either side! I've had enough of your bickering. Leave me, all of you. 
(The council withdraws, leaving the King alone. The Queen Mother quietly enters the chamber.) 
CATHERINE: You summoned the council? 
CHARLES: I gave orders I was to be left alone. 
CATHERINE: Without my knowledge or consent? 
CHARLES: I asked to be left alone, mother. 
CATHERINE: The threat over your friend, the Admiral. You are the King. 
CHARLES: Yes, I am the King, and to be obeyed! Now keep out of my sight unless you care to end your days in a convent. 
CATHERINE: I would wish you have the courage, my son. 
CHARLES: I have but to give the order. 
CATHERINE: Summon your guards, have me arrested. But you had better have a good reason for the council and for the people. 
CHARLES: The attempted assassination of my Admiral, by you and Tavannes. Do you deny it, Madame? 
CATHERINE: No. 
CHARLES: Have a care. I mean what I say. I shall send Tavannes to the block! 
CATHERINE: You would execute the Marshall of France for doing his duty? 
CHARLES: Duty? He's an assassin! 
CATHERINE: He tried to rid you of a dangerous enemy. 
CHARLES: de Coligny is my friend. You, Madame, are my enemy. 
CATHERINE: If ever I were to be. 
CHARLES: May God help you. 
(The Queen Mother throws a list of names onto the table.) 
CATHERINE: Look at these before you decide who are your enemies. You think the Huguenots would stop at killing me? They want your blood too. 
CHARLES: So you keep telling me every day of my life. Why? I protect them. They're all my subjects. What have they to gain? 
CATHERINE: Until now, nothing. 
CHARLES: And now? 
CATHERINE: We have a Protestant prince in Paris, Henri of Navarre. You think they give a fig for your protection, now that one of their own is within grasp of the throne?

[Street]

(Outside, a crowd has gathered around the body of the Abbot of Amboise.) 
MAN: The Huguenots must have done it! 
WOMAN: The free thinkers! 
MAN: They shouldn't be allowed to come here! They done it! 
2ND WOMAN: It's a wicked thing. 
MAN: The Huguenots will stop at nothing! They even kill our priests. 
2ND MAN: Nothing is sacred to the Huguenots! 
MAN: Something will have to be done! The Huguenots must be banned from entering towns! 
2ND MAN: Kill the Huguenots! They will kill these poor defenceless priests elsewhere! No! Lock them up! 
COLBERT: You are certain that no one saw the body brought here? 
GUARD: Positive. Just look at them. They all believe the Huguenots killed him. 
COLBERT: Good. 
STEVEN: Doctor, what happened? What have they done? 
WOMAN: The Huguenots murdered him! 
STEVEN: No! 
MAN: They did. We saw them! 
WOMAN: There were fifteen of them! 
MAN: They struck him down! But he'll be revenged! 
COLBERT: Hold that man! He's responsible! 
MAN: After him, guards! Catch him! 
(Leaving the corpse of the old man sprawled in the gutter, the crowd turns on Steven. He is forced, literally, to run for his life.)

Episode Four - Bell of Doom

[Preslin's shop]

(Anne has spent the night alone in Preslin's shop. Now, as morning gives way to afternoon, she despairs of ever seeing Steven again. Then there is a knocking at the door.) 
STEVEN [OC]: Anne! Anne, you there? Anne! 
(Anne opens the door.) 
ANNE: Oh, Monsieur! I'd given you up for lost when you didn't come back last night. I thought the guards must have caught you. 
STEVEN: Yes, they nearly did. I managed to shake them off. I'm sorry, Anne. The curfew rang before I could get back last night. The guards were still looking for me this morning. That's why I've been so long. 
ANNE: Did you see Monsieur Muss and give him your message? 
STEVEN: Oh, yes. The warning was too late. 
ANNE: What will you do now? Go back to your friend, the Doctor. 
STEVEN: I can't. He's dead. 
ANNE: Monsieur! 
STEVEN: I saw his body lying in the street by the Abbot's house. Before I could do anything Roger Colbert saw me and sent the guards after me again. Heaven knows what I do now. 
ANNE: Return to England? 
STEVEN: I can't. I've got to find the key to the Tardis. 
ANNE: What Monsieur? 
STEVEN: Ah. The Doctor has a special key. Without it I can't leave. 
ANNE: Well, do you know where it is? 
STEVEN: No. If the Doctor had it with him then I'm lost. I didn't have time to look for it. My only hope is that it's still with his own clothes. 
ANNE: You mean at the Abbot's house? 
STEVEN: Oh, no, no. He would have had to change before he went there. The only other place I think he's been to is this shop. 
ANNE: Oh, but we've already searched here, Monsieur, looking for clothes here. 
STEVEN: And we must do it again! Please help me. Open every cupboard, every box. I must find that key. 
ANNE: Right, Monsieur.

[Tavannes' study]

(Marshall Tavannes is in his study talking to Simon.) 
TAVANNES: It may hinder the inquiry into the attempted assassination of de Coligny. 
DUVALL: Surely the King is insisting that de Coligny is avenged? 
TAVANNES: He is. But by blaming the death of the Abbot on the Huguenots we may be able to cover our tracks. 
DUVALL: Will the King pay any attention to the Abbot's death? 
TAVANNES: I don't know. Fortunately the Admiral himself is helping us. He doesn't want the inquiry yet so that may give us a little time. 
DUVALL: Therefore the Englishman must be caught. 
TAVANNES: And killed. He must not be allowed to get back to the Abbot's house. 
DUVALL: The men are searching Paris for him. 
TAVANNES: He must be found tonight. Tomorrow is Saint Bartholomew's Day and it'll be all too easy for him to evade us in the revelry. 
(A messenger arrives with a note for Tavannes.) 
TAVANNES: The Queen Mother. She commands me to go to her. No doubt she has thought of some further scheme to protect her good name. Wait for me here, Simon. I may have more instructions for you when I get back.

[Preslin's shop]

(Evening falls. Steven and Anne have wrecked Preslin's shop in their search for the Tardis key. There are clothes strewn about and boxes overturned, their contents littered across the floor. Steven is beginning to get desperate.) 
STEVEN: Well? 
ANNE: Nothing, Monsieur. There's no sign of your friend's clothes anywhere. 
STEVEN: They must be here. 
ANNE: All I found was this. 
STEVEN: But, but this is his stick! 
ANNE: Your friend's? 
STEVEN: Yes. Well, his clothes must be here somewhere! Where did you find it? 
ANNE: In the back, Monsieur. But there are no clothes there. 
STEVEN: You sure? 
ANNE: Yes. I've searched everywhere! 
STEVEN: Then why the stick? He couldn't have pretended to be the Abbot dressed as he was, so he must have changed somewhere. But where? 
ANNE: Perhaps he went away somewhere with the apothecary who used to live here? 
STEVEN: What, with Preslin? No, he couldn't. 
ANNE: Why not? 
STEVEN: Because Preslin is either dead or in prison. 
DOCTOR: He is not. 
STEVEN: Doctor!

[de Coligny's house]

(Gaston, Toligny and Nicholas are standing vigil by de Coligny's sick bed.) 
GASTON: The Catholics will not rest until you are dead! 
DE COLIGNY: You are too impetuous, Viscount. 
TOLIGNY: The King is determined to prevent a further attempt. Why else do you think he's put so heavy a guard on this house? 
GASTON: A Catholic guard under a Catholic commander! The Admiral could hardly be in the care of a greater enemy. 
TOLIGNY: He is under the protection of the King. 
GASTON: And the Queen Mother. 
MUSS: Gaston, you are tiring the Admiral, and doing yourself an injustice. You had better return to the Louvre. 
GASTON: Nicholas, no! If you were to leave Paris it would be better for you and for us. 
MUSS: The surgeon said the Admiral must not be moved. 
GASTON: Then may God protect you. 
(Gaston leaves.) 
DE COLIGNY: I hope Henri of Navarre realises how dangerous it is to have such a hothead in his service. 
TOLIGNY: He must be wrong. The commander wouldn't dare to disobey the King after what has happened. 
MUSS: Let's hope so. Is there anything you need, Admiral? 
DE COLIGNY: Stay with me. 
MUSS: Of course. 
TOLIGNY: You must be grateful that the wounds are not poisoned, so that there is no fear of you dying. 
DE COLIGNY: I do not fear death. I only hope we have nothing to fear from my staying alive.

[Preslin's shop]

DOCTOR: Oh, my dear boy, had you stayed at the tavern all this mix-up could have been avoided. 
STEVEN: I did stay at the tavern, you didn't turn up! 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I was unavoidably delayed. Never mind that now. Come along, we must go. Come along. 
ANNE: Oh, you cannot now, Monsieur. The curfew's rung. 
DOCTOR: What? Oh, that wretched curfew is the start of so much trouble. 
ANNE: It'll be easy to leave Paris in the morning, Monsieur. Tomorrow's Saint Bartholomew's Day and everyone will be celebrating. 
STEVEN: Huh! With all the trouble that's going on I can't see what they've got to celebrate. 
DOCTOR: I told you not to get involved. 
STEVEN: Look, I tried not to, but the Abbot did look like you, and if I hadn't found out about Admiral de Coligny being the 'Sea Beggar' then 
DOCTOR: What's that? 
STEVEN: I tried to tell you before. Admiral de Coligny is one of the Huguenot leaders. The Catholics tried to shoot him. 
DOCTOR: Did you say tomorrow was Saint Bartholomew's Day, child? 
ANNE: Yes, Monsieur. 
DOCTOR: What year is this, my boy? 
STEVEN: Oh, I don't know. What difference does it make? 
DOCTOR: What date is it, child? 
ANNE: Date, Monsieur? August the twenty-third as 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, I know that. The year, the year, hmm? 
ANNE: Fifteen seventy two, Monsieur. But surely you know that? 
DOCTOR: Go home, Anne. You must leave here at once. 
ANNE: No! I've got nowhere to go! 
DOCTOR: Where were you working? 
ANNE: At the Abbot's house. 
DOCTOR: You go back there. 
ANNE: I can't! They'll kill me! 
DOCTOR: You must leave this shop, child. 
STEVEN: Doctor, what's happening? 
DOCTOR: Oh, please don't interfere. Now, my dear, there must be somewhere you can stay in Paris. 
ANNE: No, there's only my aunt's place, and they'll kill me there. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense. Tonight you will be quite safe. Now you go carefully through the streets. 
ANNE: Well, what about the curfew? 
DOCTOR: Well, you've been out in the curfew before, haven't you? 
ANNE: Yes, but the guards 
DOCTOR: Then you know how to avoid the patrols. You go back to your aunt. You'll be quite safe. And you take my advice and stay indoors tomorrow. Now do you understand? It's too dangerous for you to stay here. Now off you go, child. Come along, off, off, off. 
STEVEN: Look, Doctor, I don't think you understand 
DOCTOR: Ah, sh sh sh sh sh sh sh. 
ANNE: Goodbye, Monsieur Steven. Safe journey. 
STEVEN: Doctor, I don't think she should go. 
DOCTOR: Now off you go, my child. Off you go. 
(Anne leaves.) 
STEVEN: Goodbye. Look, are you sure she'll be all right? The guards are waiting for her. 
DOCTOR: My dear Steven, the Catholics will have other things on their minds tonight. She will be quite safe. Now then, you and I must leave Paris at once. Come! 
STEVEN: Look, Doctor, what is going on? 
DOCTOR: There is no time for me to explain. Come along, boy. Come along!

[Tavannes' study]

(Someone quietly enters the room.) 
TAVANNES: Simon? 
CATHERINE: No, Marshall. 
TAVANNES: Madame. I apologise, I thought that 
CATHERINE: Never mind. I have it here, the order signed by the King. Our plans for tomorrow can go ahead. 
TAVANNES: Thank God. 
CATHERINE: God had very little to do with it. What is this? 
TAVANNES: The list, Madame. When those Huguenots are killed we need have no further fear of a Protestant France. 
CATHERINE: We have no need of lists, Marshall. The good people of Paris know their enemies. They will take care of them. 
TAVANNES: The good people? Madame, if you rouse the mob the innocent will perish with the guilty. 
CATHERINE: Innocent? Heresy can have no innocents. France will breath of pure air after tomorrow. 
TAVANNES: And Navarre, Madame, your son-in-law? Is he to be slaughtered with the others? 
CATHERINE: Tomorrow Henri of Navarre will pay for his pretensions to the Crown. 
TAVANNES: Madame, we must not kill Navarre. 
CATHERINE: Must not? 
TAVANNES: Protestant Europe will merely shed a pious tear over the death of a few thousand Huguenots. The death of a prince will launch a Holy War. 
CATHERINE: If one Huguenot life escapes me tomorrow, we may both regret this act of mercy. 
TAVANNES: Not mercy, Madame. Policy. 
CATHERINE: Very well, Marshall. Then you must get him out of Paris. After tomorrow, even I could not save him. 
TAVANNES: I will see to it, Madame. 
CATHERINE: And Marshall, close the gates of the city now. 
(The Queen Mother leaves, and Simon enters the study.) 
DUVALL: Well, my lord? 
TAVANNES: The order has been given. You may begin. 
DUVALL: My men are ready. Where's the list? 
TAVANNES: There is no list. 
DUVALL: But I thought? 
TAVANNES: We are to unleash the wolves of Paris. None are to be spared. 
DUVALL: Even better, my lord. 
TAVANNES: Is it? I wonder. And Simon, when you have passed on the order I have a special charge for you. 
DUVALL: My lord? 
TAVANNES: Henri of Navarre. 
DUVALL: I am to have the honour? 
TAVANNES: Yes, but not of killing him. You will escort him out of Paris. 
DUVALL: But my lord! 
TAVANNES: You not hear me? You will be responsible for his safety. You will have to leave tomorrow's work to others. Now get out. 
(Duvall leaves.) 
TAVANNES: At dawn tomorrow this city will weep tears of blood.

[Street]

(The Doctor and Steven have stolen through the streets of Paris, but their way back to the Tardis is blocked by the guards standing outside de Coligny's house.) 
GUARD 1: Oh, it's nearly dawn. 
GUARD 2: How many more nights have we got to watch over this Huguenot's house? 
GUARD 1: Till the King decrees otherwise. 
GUARD 2: But why does it have to be us? 
DOCTOR: Yes, we shall have to get past them to get back to the Tardis. 
STEVEN: Can we make a run for it? 
DOCTOR: Oh no, no. It's far too dangerous. 
STEVEN: What do we do? 
DOCTOR: For the moment we just wait. 
GUARD 2: I won't be sorry to see the night over. Hello, what's this? 
(A troop arrives.) 
GUARD 1: More orders, I expect. 
OFFICER: You're relieved. Go back to your quarters. 
GUARD 1: Relieved, sir? It's not due for an hour or more. 
OFFICER: Don't argue. Go quickly! 
STEVEN: Look, if we don't go soon it'll be light. 
DOCTOR: I know, I know. Just keep quiet. 
(The curfew bell begins to sound.) 
DOCTOR: There's the tocsin! The curfew's been lifted. 
(Steven and the Doctor leave their hiding place and rush to the Tardis as the soldiers begin hammering on de Coligny's door.) 
OFFICER: Open up! In the King's name! Open this door! 
(The Tardis leaves Paris as the carnage and the slaughter begins.)

[Tardis]

STEVEN: Surely there was something we could have done? 
DOCTOR: No, nothing. Nothing. In any case, I cannot change the course of history, you know that. The massacre continued for several days in Paris and then spread itself to other parts of France. Oh, what a senseless waste. What a terrible page of the past. 
STEVEN: Did they all die? 
DOCTOR: Yes, most of them. About ten thousand in Paris alone. 
STEVEN: The Admiral? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
STEVEN: Nicholas? You had to leave Anne Chaplet there to die. 
DOCTOR: Anne Chaplet? 
STEVEN: The girl! The girl who was with me! If you'd brought her with us she needn't have died. But no, you had to leave her there to be slaughtered. 
DOCTOR: Well, it is possible of course she didn't die, and I was right to leave her. 
STEVEN: Possible? Look, how possible? That girl was already hunted by the Catholic guards. If they killed ten thousand how did they spare her? You don't know, do you? You can't say for certain that you weren't responsible for that girl's death. 
DOCTOR: I was not responsible. 
STEVEN: Oh, no. You just sent her back to her aunt's house where the guards were waiting to catch her. I tell you this much, Doctor, wherever this machine of yours lands next I'm getting off. If your researches have so little regard for human life then I want no part of it. 
DOCTOR: We've landed. Your mind is made up? 
(The Tardis doors open.) 
STEVEN: Goodbye. 
DOCTOR: My dear Steven, history sometimes gives us a terrible shock, and that is because we don't quite fully understand. Why should we? After all, we're all too small to realise its final pattern. Therefore don't try and judge it from where you stand. I was right to do as I did. Yes, that I firmly believe. 
(Steven leaves the Tardis without another word.) 
DOCTOR: Even after all this time he cannot understand. I dare not change the course of history. Well, at least I taught him to take some precautions. He did remember to look at the scanner before he opened the doors. Now they're all gone. All gone. None of them could understand. Not even my little Susan, or Vicki. And as for Barbara and Chatterton. Chesterton. They were all too impatient to get back to their own time. And now, Steven. Perhaps I should go home, back to my own planet. But I can't. I can't. 
(The Tardis has landed on Wimbledon Common in 1966. A young girl is running for help. She spots the police box at the roadside and dashes inside.) 
DOCTOR: Who are you? 
DODO: Where's the telephone? 
DOCTOR: What did you say? 
DODO: The telephone. I've got to ring up. 
DOCTOR: Oh, pull yourself together, child. I think you've made a mistake. 
DODO: Who are you? Are you the police? 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious. Of course not. 
DODO: Well, this is a police box. It says so outside. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. I know. But, er, it isn't, if you know what I mean. Now run along and find another police box. In any case, child, what do you want to do with the police? 
DODO: There's been an accident. A little boy's been hurt and I've got to phone the police. 
DOCTOR: Oh, well, I'm afraid I can't help you. No, you must run along and phone the police somewhere else. And the same time phone for an ambulance. 
DODO: Wait a minute, if this isn't a police box, what is it? And who are you? 
DOCTOR: Well, my dear, I'm a doctor of science, and this machine is for travelling through time and relative dimensions in space. Now you 
DODO: Come again? 
DOCTOR: Oh, never mind, my dear, never mind. Run along. 
DODO: There's something odd going on here. 
DOCTOR: Oh please, child. 
STEVEN: Doctor, quick! You've got to take off. 
DOCTOR: Oh, so you've come back, my boy! 
STEVEN: Yes, yes, I've come back. We can't go into that now. There are two policemen coming over the common towards the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Policemen? Coming here? Good gracious me! They'll want to use the telephone or something like it. 
(The Tardis doors close and they dematerialise.) 
STEVEN: Oh, that was close. 
DOCTOR: Well, tell me, young man, what made you change your mind? 
STEVEN: How did you get in here? 
DODO: On me feet, same as you did. 
STEVEN: Look, do you realise what's happening? We've taken off! We could land anywhere! 
DODO: We really travelling? Where to? 
STEVEN: But we're travelling in time and space. We're not on Earth any more. We could land anywhere, in any age. 
DODO: Tell us another one. 
STEVEN: Doctor, how could you? 
DOCTOR: What else could I do, dear boy? You don't want a couple of policemen aboard the Tardis do you? You know, you're the most inconsistent young man? Just now you were telling me off for not having that Chaplet girl aboard! 
STEVEN: Ah, that was different! This is no joyride you know. You may never get home again. 
DODO: I don't care. 
STEVEN: What about your parents? 
DODO: I haven't got any. I live with me great aunt, and she won't care if she never sees me again. 
DOCTOR: There now, you see? All this fuss about nothing. But don't you think she looks rather like my grandchild Susan? 
STEVEN: You forget, I've never met your granddaughter. 
DOCTOR: Oh, no, no, no, no, of course not, no. Yes, but she does you know. What is your name, child? 
DODO: Dodo. 
DOCTOR: What? 
DODO: It's Dorothea, really. Dorothea Chaplet. 
STEVEN: Chaplet? Yes, but you're not French, are you? 
DODO: Don't be daft. Me granddad was, though. 
STEVEN: Doctor, it's not possible is it? Chaplet? Anne's great, great 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, it is possible, my boy. Very possible. Welcome aboard the Tardis, Miss Dorothea Chaplet. 
DODO: Dodo! 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear! My dear!

[Jungle]

(A strange humanoid with a thick head of hair and single eye where our mouth is, is walking along carefully. The Tardis materialises and new girl Dodo Chaplet dashes out, wearing a crusades style tabard. She sneezes. Steven follows her.) 
STEVEN: Just where do you think you're going? 
DODO: Out. 
STEVEN: Out? 
DODO: Yes, I thought I'd get some fresh air. Somebody opened the door and 
STEVEN: But nobody said you could go out. 
DODO: Do they have to then? 
STEVEN: Well, of course they do. 
(Dodo is walking away.) 
STEVEN: Look, Dodo, you don't know what you might have found out here. No gravity, poisoned atmosphere, all sorts of things. Look, stop prancing around over there. What happens if you get lost? 
DODO: I catch a bus back. 
STEVEN: A bus? Look, what are you talking about? I mean, just where do you think you are? 
DODO: Ah! Bet you thought you'd caught me, didn't you? Bet you thought I didn't know. Well, I do. 
STEVEN: You do? 
DODO: Of course I do. 
STEVEN: What, this place? I mean, you recognise it? What, with all these strange animals and flowers and things? 
(Toucan in the trees.) 
STEVEN: Well, you can't have been here before. 
DODO: Yes I have. It's just outside London. I came here once with the school. It's called Whipsnade. 
STEVEN: Just outside London? Look, wait a minute. I mean, it can't be. 
DODO: Yes, it is. I bet if you go down that path there, you'll come to the American Bison and the Tea Bar. 
STEVEN: Look, we don't even know that we're on Earth. 
DODO: Earth? Earth? Well, it couldn't be anywhere else now, could it? Hey, look Steven, that proves it. That's a chameleon. 
STEVEN: What this? 
DODO: And here's a monitor. Look, that's a Locust. There, what did I tell you? 
STEVEN: Look, how do you know all this? 
DODO: I learnt it at school. There's nothing you can tell me about nature, simply nothing. 
(A creature calls) 
STEVEN: Having second thoughts? 
DODO: No! I just don't remember Whipsnade being so rowdy, that's all. 
(The Doctor comes out of the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: Improbable as it may seem, dear boy, I think the child, Dorothea 
DODO: Dodo! 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, of course, my dear. Dodo is right. 
STEVEN: What? You mean it is Earth? 
DOCTOR: Well, I can't tell you just yet. All I can say is that it's more likely to be Earth than anywhere else and it's very strange indeed. You know, I've been taking a look at my instruments in there and it's really very strange. 
(The Doctor and Steven are watched as they go back into the Tardis.)

[Control deck]

(A printout reads - VERDICT .... 20 - 0 = GUILTY. Another of the one-eyed people hands the paper to a human at a higher level desk. A young man is escorted in. Every human is wearing a garment made of strips of cloth hanging from a thick collar.) 
COMMANDER: Prisoner, you've been found guilty of extreme carelessness in carrying out your duties. By leaving open a wide valve in the heat exchange unit, you could have caused an explosion that would have been fatal not only to the human race, but also to our friends, the Monoids. As your commander, Galactic law gives me wide powers in such cases. The safety of our people must be preserved at all costs. In these grave circumstances, the lightest sentence I can pass is one of miniaturisation. Prepare the Minifier. Sentence will be carried out immediately. The prisoner will be retained at micro-cell size, to be re-constituted in approximately seven hundred years time, when it can no longer be a danger to us. Does the prosecution accept this sentence? 
(A man signs to a Monoid, who nods.) 
ZENTOS: We do. 
COMMANDER: Has the defence anything further to say on the prisoner's behalf? 
(A young woman runs up to the desk.) 
MELLIUM: Father, anyone can make mistakes. He's not likely to do it again. 
COMMANDER: My child, we are the Guardians of the human race. You know our responsibilities cannot be taken lightly. Under Galactic law, the only alternative punishment would be expulsion. 
MANYAK: Sir, the prisoner accepts the verdict and thanks you for your clemency in not imposing a harsher sentence. 
COMMANDER: Very well. Proceed. 
MELLIUM: Goodbye. 
(The young man is escorted by two Monoids into a booth. He crouches on the floor as a Monoid presses a switch and he shrinks smaller and smaller until he cannot be seen. One of the humans enters the booth and lifts a small tray containing the miniaturised convict off the floor. He walks away with it. The prosecution Monoid signs to Zentos.) 
ZENTOS: My learned friend wishes to thank you, sir, on behalf of the Monoids, for the care you take of us all. 
[Jungle]

DODO: Look, Doctor. 
(An elephant walks through the trees.) 
DODO: Hey, look at him then. 
(The travellers go over to him.) 
STEVEN: Well? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's just as I said. It's all very, very strange. That is an Indian elephant. 
STEVEN: Yes, I know. What difference does that make? What does it prove? 
DOCTOR: Well, that's what I'm trying to find out, dear boy. 
DODO: Flowers from America, birds from Africa, a snake from Brazil and now an elephant from India. 
DOCTOR: Exactly, my dear. 
STEVEN: It's a jungle incorporating things from all over the world. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're quite right, my boy. Yes, and top of everything else, it's a jungle without a sky. 
DODO: Hey, look at that then. 
STEVEN: No sky? 
DOCTOR: No sun, no clouds, merely a metal roof radiating some kind of light. 
STEVEN: It's extraordinary. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and plus something else. 
DODO: What's that? 
DOCTOR: The earth, this, this ground we're standing on. It appears to be trembling. 
DODO: It is more elephants coming? 
STEVEN: An earthquake building up? 
DOCTOR: No, it's too regular for that. No, it's more of a mechanical vibration. Yes. 
STEVEN: Look. 
DOCTOR: Extraordinary. 
STEVEN: In what circumstances do you get all these things together? I mean, animals and vegetable life from different continents? 
DODO: With a metal roof and all this shaking? 
DOCTOR: There's only one thing that strikes me. This could be some kind of indoor nature park. 
STEVEN: Yes, but on this scale? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, improbable dear boy, but possible. Definitely possible. 
DODO: But are we on Earth or, or 
DOCTOR: Mmm? 
DODO: Choo! (Dodo sneezes again.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, bless you my dear. 
DODO: Oh, thanks. 
DOCTOR: You have a handkerchief, I hope? 
DODO: Of course I have. 
DOCTOR: Well then, use it, my child! We must do something about that cold of yours. That reminds me, why are you dressed in these stupid clothes? Have you been footling about in my wardrobe? Is that what it is? What do you think you're playing at, crusades? 
DODO: I'm not playing at anything. Is it all right to wear, or do I have to ask permission for that as well? 
DOCTOR: Yes, you do my dear. Now you take care of them because you never know when we might use them. Now, I suggest we take a last look round and we'll get you off to bed. 
DODO: Oh, you're not going to send me home, are you? 
DOCTOR: Home? Ho, ho! What an idea. I couldn't send you home even if I wanted to. 
DODO: Oh, that's all right, then. I think I'm beginning to enjoy this space travel or whatever it is.

[Control deck]

(It is now a busy place. A Monoid is driving a tractor unit hauling a crate. Others are signing to each other. Children are playing. A Monoid signs to Zentos. He goes over to the Commander and Mellium who are looking at a design.) 
ZENTOS: Commander? 
COMMANDER: Yes, Zentos? 
ZENTOS: A strange report from the jungle. The Monoids acquaint us of intruders. 
COMMANDER: Intruders? But how can that be? How could they have entered it? 
ZENTOS: I've no idea. I'll try and trace them. 
MELLIUM: But surely it's impossible for anyone to be in the jungle that we don't know about? Well, where will they have come from? 
COMMANDER: I don't know. Perhaps when we see them? 
(An overhead view of Steven and the Doctor comes up on the wall viewscreen.) 
ZENTOS: Here they are. 
COMMANDER: They look like human beings, but they can't be. We accounted for everyone. 
ZENTOS: Shall we not arrest them and bring them here and question them? 
MELLIUM: Father, look. It seems to be their spaceship. It is an unusual design. 
COMMANDER: Are we sure this is nothing to do with the Monoids? 
ZENTOS: Quite sure. It was they who reported it. 
COMMANDER: Good, then you're right. They must be questioned. But Zentos, not arrested. Invited. 
(The community gather to watch the travellers on the viewscreen.)

[Jungle]

DODO: Doctor, Steven, get a look at these fab pictures! 
(She's found some rock paintings.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, fab, hmm. My dear child, if you're going to be with us for any length of time, you'll have to do something about that English of yours. 
DODO: What's wrong with it? 
DOCTOR: It's terrible, child. Oh, it's most irritating. Well, look at that now. Isn't that extraordinary? Ah, very interesting. It looks like a zebra with two heads. 
STEVEN: Yes, well, that could be the imagination of the artist. 
DOCTOR: Hmm, perhaps and perhaps not. What then. Yes, we've already established this place as illogical. Why shouldn't there be animals with two heads? 
STEVEN: No reason at all, except that the more we see of it, the less like Earth it becomes. 
(An alarm sounds.) 
DODO: What's that? Do you think somebody's seen us. 
STEVEN: There's only one way to find out. 
DOCTOR: Yes! 
(Steven goes off and sees that there are Monoids at the Tardis.) 
STEVEN: You were right. It is an alarm. They've found the Tardis. I can't say I like the look of them. 
DODO: What's that? 
(The alarm stops.) 
STEVEN: They're coming this way, searching for us. 
DODO: There's a kind of cave there. 
STEVEN: Go on, you go ahead. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. What do they look like, dear boy? 
STEVEN: Terrifying. Is this is Earth, it's no longer inhabited by human beings. 
DOCTOR: Shh. You'll frighten the child. Come on.

[Cave]

DODO: What are they? Some awful 
DOCTOR: Now, don't worry child. You're quite safe with us. 
DODO: Yeah, but supposing they have two heads? 
(Steven stifles her sneeze as the Monoids pass the cave entrance.) 
STEVEN: Bless you. Remind me never to take you out again when you've got a cold. 
DOCTOR: Now, let's try and get back to the Tardis. Take care. This might be dangerous. 
(Dodo sneezes.) 
STEVEN: Quiet! (Dodo sniffles.) What's the matter? Are you crying? 
DODO: No, me nose is running! 
DOCTOR: Just do as he says, child. This may be very difficult.

[Jungle]

(Steven leads the way.) 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Why, yes, of course. Yes! I know where I am now. Yes, indeed! 
STEVEN: It looks like some sort of city, factory? 
(Just beyond the jungle edge is a high-rise cityscape.) 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, dear boy. All this is a spaceship! 
STEVEN: A spaceship? 
DOCTOR: Yes, exactly! 
DODO: Hey, Doctor? If this is a spaceship what are they? 
(A group of Monoids with sticks stand up.) 
[Control deck]

(The printer is automatically transcribing the conversation. Traveller: you found our vehicle.) 
COMMANDER: You travel in that black box? 
STEVEN: Yes. 
COMMANDER: Well, how are you able to make your spaceship enter ours? 
STEVEN: It isn't just a spaceship. It can travel anywhere in time or space. 
ZENTOS: Why have you chosen to come here? 
STEVEN: Well, we didn't. It has a mind of its own. 
COMMANDER: I don't understand. Experiments to pass through the fourth dimension were undertaken in the twenty seventh segment of time. They were unsuccessful. How can anything so crude 
STEVEN: Look, I told you before. The Doctor's the one who will tell you what you want to know. 
(The Commander signs to a Monoid.) 
STEVEN: May I ask a question also? 
ZENTOS: No! 
COMMANDER: Why not? We're all friends here. 
STEVEN: Look, is this really a spaceship? This city and all that surrounds it? 
COMMANDER: Yes, indeed. 
(He goes over to a console and points at a schematic. The city is at the edge of a huge circle.) 
COMMANDER: Here we are. 
STEVEN: That's the biggest we've ever seen. Look, who are you and these creatures that serve you? 
COMMANDER: Like you, we come from the Earth. The origin of the Monoids is obscure. They came to Earth many years ago, apparently from their own planet which was dying. They offered us their invaluable services for being allowed to come on this joint voyage. 
STEVEN: And where you are going? 
COMMANDER: To Refusis Two. The Earth also is dying. We have left it for the last time. 
STEVEN: The last time? 
COMMANDER: Yes. In a short time it will burn and be swallowed in the pull of the Sun. 
STEVEN: Then we must have journeyed forward millions of years. 
ZENTOS: You yourself, I take it, are human? 
STEVEN: Why yes, of course. 
COMMANDER: Why do you doubt him? 
ZENTOS: They could be Refusians sent here to intercept us, to sabotage our mission. 
STEVEN: Refusians? From the planet you're headed for? 
COMMANDER: Explain. 
ZENTOS: We only know them as intelligence's that inhabit that planet. They might have a way of assuming human bodies, of using them to pass, to mingle amongst us! 
DOCTOR: Oh, rubbish, rubbish. With all our imperfections, I can assure you, sir, if you were to cut my skin, I would bleed, the same as you would. 
STEVEN: That's right. 
(Dodo sneezes.) 
DOCTOR: There you see, complete with chills. 
ZENTOS: Chills? 
DOCTOR: A virus fever which used to be quite common to the human being. 
COMMANDER: And cured so long ago we've forgotten what it was like. Fascinating! It's like history coming to life. Tell me, Doctor, if you cannot direct your spacecraft, your journeys must take you to some strange places. 
(Zentos has been signing to a Monoid.) 
MELLIUM: What were you telling him? 
ZENTOS: I wish to know more of the traveller's spacecraft. 
MELLIUM: You do not trust the travellers? 
ZENTOS: I know nothing of them. Your father trusts them. 
MELLIUM: He knows no more than you. He simply has faith. 
ZENTOS: So have I, in my own eyes and ears, and machines tell fewer lies than men. 
DOCTOR: Including the Daleks. 
COMMANDER: Nero, the Trojan wars, the Daleks. But all that happened in the first segment of time. 
DOCTOR: Segment? To use your phrase, sir, what segment are we in now? 
COMMANDER: The fifty seventh. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious! We must have jumped at least ten million years. 
STEVEN: When do you expect your journey to end? 
COMMANDER: Not for a long time. Neither I, nor my daughter Mellium, nor Zentos, will ever see the planet. That pleasure is reserved for our children's children, many years hence. 
STEVEN: How long from now? 
COMMANDER: Using your measurement of time, seven hundred years. 
DOCTOR: Seven hundred years, but why travel that far? Surely 
COMMANDER: Only Refusis has the same conditions that we had on Earth. Atmosphere, water, the right temperature. 
STEVEN: Has anyone ever been there? 
COMMANDER: No. Our knowledge is based purely on audio-space research. 
STEVEN: No wonder you had to bring everything. At least two of each, I suppose? 
DODO: Like the Ark? 
COMMANDER: The Ark? 
DODO: Yeah, Noah's ark. You know, two by two. The flood. 
COMMANDER: I'm afraid I don't know. But we do have the Earth's full population, human and animal. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but where, sir? I can only see but a few people. 
COMMANDER: We are the Guardians. The rest have been reduced to micro-cell size. 
[Storage chamber]

(A Monoid works in the room.) COMMANDER [OC]: They are stored in trays and will re-emerge normally when we land. Each cabinet contains a million people. Oh, yes. There are many things aboard our ship which would interest a traveller.

[Control deck]

COMMANDER: Mellium, why don't you show the young people the statue? 
MELLIUM: Would you like to see it? 
DODO: It depends, what is 
STEVEN: Yes, of course we would. Come on, Dodo. 
MELLIUM: This way. 
COMMANDER: While I am sure that you would be more interested in the technicalities of our control deck. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, indeed! 
COMMANDER: Then I'll leave you with our chief controller, Manyak. He will explain everything. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
DOCTOR: Now tell me, that noise we heard just now. Was that a flight adjustment? 
MANYAK: No, sir, refueling pause. 
(Mellium, Steven and Dodo are by the base of a giant statue.) 
MELLIUM: Here it is, Homo Sapiens. Started on Earth, due to be completed just before the landing on Refusis. 
STEVEN: What? Seven hundred years to sculpt one statue? 
MELLIUM: Yes, we're constructing it by hand using the ancient methods. It's for our children and our children's children, so that they can watch it grow gradually as time goes by. 
(Dodo has to stand on a ladder just to be able to reach the toe of the statue.) 
DODO: What is it made of? You can't scratch it, can you? 
STEVEN: Dodo! You'll have to watch her. She'll have the whole thing down. 
MELLIUM: It's a substance called gragarium rock. It'll last for ever. Here's the finished design. (A human holding the spherical Ark in his right hand.) 
DODO: Hey, that's gear! 
(An alarm sounds.) 
DODO: What's that? All that carry on? 
(The launching bay door opens and a tractor unit enters the control deck with a Monoid lying on it. The Commander is holding his head in pain.) 
ZENTOS: Commander, the strange disease, the fever is spreading among the Monoids. 
COMMANDER: I can hardly hear you, Zentos. It's so hot. What's happened to the temperature? 
ZENTOS: Commander? The Commander, too. He has the strange fever. The fever brought by the strangers! 
MELLIUM: What is it? What's wrong? 
ZENTOS: Stay away from them, Mellium, and from your father. 
MELLIUM: But what is it? 
COMMANDER: I don't know. I'm not sure. But Zentos is right. Stay away. 
(Dodo feels the Commander's forehead.) 
ZENTOS: Don't touch him! 
DOCTOR: We may be able to help. 
DODO: It's nothing to worry about. His temperature's a bit high, that's all. It's just a fever. It can only be a cold. 
DOCTOR: Do you realise what this means, dear boy? 
STEVEN: What's all the fuss about? The man's caught Dodo's cold, that's all. 
DOCTOR: All? All? These people, this generation, have never experienced the common cold for the simple reason it was wiped out many generations ago before they were born. They have no resistance to it.
STEVEN: What'll happen? 
DOCTOR: I don't quite know, I don't know. But it might be fatal and we shall be to blame. Yes, it's all our fault and I should have foreseen it. 
ZENTOS: Did you hear that? Did I not try and warn the Commander? I told you these people were evil. 
DODO: But it wasn't my fault. How was I supposed to know? 
MANYAK: The sick Monoid. He's dead. 
ZENTOS: Seize them! All of you listen! The success of all we stand for, everything aboard this spaceship is suddenly endangered by the strange fever. A fever brought by these strangers in our midst! 
DOCTOR: But I 
ZENTOS: I invoke the special Galactic law against them. Hold them, take them into custody, and later they will be made to suffer for the crime that they have committed! 
STEVEN: Look, listen to us! 
ZENTOS: Take them away! 
(The travellers are marched away.) 
MELLIUM: What about my father? 
ZENTOS: He may well die. But then again, so might all of us. In which case, it was pointless leaving.

Episode Two - The Plague

[Detention Room]

(The prisoners have been locked in a room with a bench and table.) 
STEVEN: What do you think they'll do to us, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not sure, dear boy. We shall just have to wait and see. 
DODO: It's all my fault. If I'd known it was going to be like this, I'd never have come. 
DOCTOR: Well you did come, my dear, so it's too late to be worry about that. And stop snivelling! 
DODO: I'm not snivelling. It's me nose running again! Anyway, I'm feeling better now but I don't suppose anyone cares. 
DOCTOR: But of course they care, my dear. Now don't worry. It's not your fault at all. If it's anybody's, it's mine. 
STEVEN: Look, do you think this has happened before? That we've carried an infection from one age to another, or even one planet to another? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't want to think it about it, dear boy. It's too horrifying. Though I must say that we're usually very healthy. 
STEVEN: It'll spread through the whole ship, become an epidemic. 
DOCTOR: Well, that depends on the strength of the virus infection. 
DODO: If it's half as bad as my cold was, it will. 
DOCTOR: Oh, do blow your nose, child. It's running all over the place. 
DODO: No, it isn't. I'm crying this time. 
DOCTOR: Well, look, my dear, do try and rest. You know you may be feeling better but you're far from cured. Oh, if only those wretched Guardians would let us out of here. I might be able to help.

[Control deck]

(Zentos is watching Monoids fall ill on the CCTV monitors.) 
ZENTOS: Look. That's another victim. It's not showing any signs of abating. And look.

[Jungle]

(A Monoid collapses right outside the Tardis.)

[Control deck]

ZENTOS: That's another victim. Another death. And more human Guardians have also been taken ill. Thank heaven none of them has died yet. 
MANYAK: What will happen if one does? 
ZENTOS: It'll be disaster. Each man has his allotted task. No one had reckoned on this eventuality. 
MANYAK: There must be something we can do about it. 
ZENTOS: Our micro-virologists are trying to find the answer. One of them is with the Commander now.

[Commander's room]

(A Monoid in a facemask is standing guard by the bed, and Mellium and Rhos are also wearing facemasks.) 
MELLIUM: Is there nothing you can do? 
RHOS: Unfortunately, the data covering this type of fever was lost long ago, in the primal wars of the tenth segment. 
COMMANDER: Mellium. 
MELLIUM: Yes, father? 
COMMANDER: I seem to be drifting back and forth from unconsciousness to moments of sudden clarity. 
MELLIUM: Perhaps it's better that you shouldn't talk. 
COMMANDER: No, must, I must. Promise me, Mellium, should anything happen to me 
MELLIUM: Oh, you mustn't talk this way. 
COMMANDER: Should anything happen, do all in your power, along with the others, to make sure the voyage continues. 
MELLIUM: Of course, father. 
COMMANDER: What 
MELLIUM: But soon you'll get well. 
COMMANDER: What happens to me is not so important. Or you for that matter, or any one of us, but the voyage and the eventual landing of our descendants on the planet Refusis, that is! That's the only thing that's important. Remember that. 
MELLIUM: Yes, father.

[Detention Room]

DODO: What is it? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. 
DODO: It sounds like savages. 
[Corridor]

(It's a Monoid funeral procession. Four of them are carrying a shrouded body on their shoulders.)

[Control deck]

(The procession enters.) 
ZENTOS: Proceed with the preparations for ejection. Commit the body to space burial. 
(The body is placed on the back of a tractor unit and driven away. The launching bay hatch closes.) 
MANYAK: It is over. 
(The body flies out into space.) 
ZENTOS: Guardians, Monoids, before it is too late, before we are stricken by the fever ourselves, we must make the strangers answer for the terrible crime they have committed. 
WOMAN: Yes, they must be tried and punished. 
ZENTOS: A hearing will commence at once. As Deputy Commander, I will preside. Baccu has undertaken to put the charges. 
CROWD: The best man for the job. 
ZENTOS: Will anyone speak for the prisoners? 
MANYAK: I will. 
MELLIUM: And I. My father would wish it.

[Commander's room]

MELLIUM [on monitor]: His only desire was that justice should be done and a sensible solution to this crisis be found. 
COMMANDER: Yes, yes. 
[Detention Room]

ZENTOS [on monitor]: The law that has been broken is the following 
DODO: Look Doctor, they've switched the television on. 
ZENTOS [on monitor]: In that the spaceship represents the only means by which Earth life may be extended and perpetuated, the Guardian for the time being in charge of the ship, shall have absolute power to punish or restrain any life-form that endangers

[Control deck]

ZENTOS: The success of its mission, by expulsion from the ship, miniaturisation or such lesser penalty as he shall deem fit.

[Detention Room]

DODO: Some sort of trial? 
ZENTOS [on monitor]: I call on Baccu to detail the charge. 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear, and we are the accused. 
MELLIUM [on monitor]: Doctor, Manyak and I believe your story. We've offered to speak in your defence but at least one of you must give evidence. 
DOCTOR: Of course. 
STEVEN: I must go. 
DOCTOR: What? 
STEVEN: (looking unwell) Doctor, I must. I'm getting stifled in here. I must go and do something, even if it's only to show them how stupid they are wasting time with trials and speeches. After all, the only important thing now is to let you organise finding a cure. 
DOCTOR: Very well then, if only they'll listen. 
MELLIUM [on monitor]: They'll probably ask you to speak next, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: My dear, I only want to help. 
(A Monoid enters and takes Steven away.)

[Control deck]

(Steven is in a barred cage covered in plastic to stop any germs spreading.) 
BACCU: My contention is that it was no accident that this disaster has happened. I say that you came here intentionally to spread the disease. 
STEVEN: But that's utter nonsense. I mean how can you possibly 
BACCU: And that you are agents of the planet towards which this spaceship is proceeding. That you came here to destroy us. 
STEVEN: Why? We're human beings like you are. Why should we? 
ZENTOS: There is the crux of the matter. Do you expect us to believe that nonsense, that you manage in that ridiculous machine called the Tardis, have managed to travel through time? Guardians, Monoids, these beings, whatever they are, place a heavy strain on our credulity. 
STEVEN: Well that's not very difficult! If your medical records are anything to go by, this segment of time, far from being one of the most advanced in knowledge, is one of the worst! 
ZENTOS: We can cope with all things known to the fifty seventh segment of Earth life, but not with strange diseases brought by you as agents of the intelligences that inhabit Refusis! 
STEVEN: Are you still on about that? I've told you before. We know nothing of that planet. 
ZENTOS: My instinct, every fibre of my being, tells me differently. 
STEVEN: And that, unfortunately, tells me only one thing. 
ZENTOS: What's that? 
STEVEN: That the nature of man, even in this day and age, hasn't altered at all. You still fear the unknown, like everyone else before you.

[Commander's room]

COMMANDER: That's true! True! 
ZENTOS [on monitor]: That won't stop me from coping with it.

[Control deck]

STEVEN: How? By destroying us? By ejecting us into space? 
ZENTOS: If that is the voted finding of this hearing, yes! 
MANYAK: Steven, prove to us your good faith. Would your friend, the Doctor, have any knowledge how to deal with this fever? 
STEVEN: Yes, he probably would if you'd let him out of that cell so that he had a chance to experiment. 
ZENTOS: Yes, of course he would. He would love that and by such means spread the fever even further and faster. Perhaps even kill one of the Guardians. Are we to be fooled by such tricks? 
ALL: No! 
ZENTOS: Are we to be taken in by such nonsense? 
ALL: No! 
ZENTOS: Do these creatures have the outward appearance of human beings? 
MAN: They are enemies. They should be punished! 
WOMAN: That's right! Let them be taken to the ejector chamber! They must be thrown out. 
(The crowd all shout at once.)

[Detention Room]

DODO: Doctor, look at Steven. Is he all right? 
DOCTOR: I hope so, my dear, I hope so. 
DODO: Do you think he may have caught the fever? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid he may have. It appears that this virus is more virulent than I suspected.

[Control deck]

MANYAK: Guardians, listen to me! Guardians, listen to me! This is a court of law! 
ZENTOS: Let him speak! This is a fair hearing. 
MANYAK: My appeal for reason in this matter is simple and direct. The Doctor and his companions have not denied that they brought the fever among us. They say it was an accident, and I believe them. 
WOMAN: But that's nonsense! 
MANYAK: For the simple reason that if they were in fact agents of the Refusians, they could have a achieved their objective in a much simpler way. One in which they would not have exposed themselves to this danger. 
MAN: But they're Refusians! 
WOMAN: That's no argument! 
MANYAK: Then I have another. The fever is here. We have no answer for it and it might well be that they are the only ones who can cure it. 
ZENTOS: Our micro-virologists may still find an answer. 
MANYAK: Perhaps, but if we were to agree that the Doctor and his friends could, what is the value in expelling them from the spaceship?

[Commander's room]

COMMANDER: None at all. If Manyak and my daughter can see that, why can't they?

[Control deck]

BACCU: Guardians, listen to me! I've just had news of another disaster. One of our kind, one of the Guardians has died from the fever. 
ZENTOS: Do you want to hear more? Never mind the arguments of the defender because now they are nothing, now that one of our own kind had died. So, Guardians, what is your answer to the charge? Do you find the prisoner guilty or not guilty? 
ALL: Guilty! 
ZENTOS: Is it your vote that we exact the full penalty of the special Galactic law? 
ALL: Yes! 
ZENTOS: So be it! They shall be taken from this place and expelled from the ship and the privilege of execution, in that they were the first to be struck by the fever, will be granted to the Monoids. 
MELLIUM: But the verdict is wrong! 
MANYAK: Yes, but it is the voted verdict. There is nothing we can do about it. 
(Steven collapses in the cell.)

[Detention Room]

DODO: Doctor, something is wrong with Steven! 
(Steven is dragged in by two Guardians in face masks.) 
DOCTOR: Stop! I demand fair play. This young man is as ill as any one of your own people. How do you expect him to plead in his own defence? 
ZENTOS [on monitor]: The verdict of the court was passed that you are guilty.

[Control deck]

ZENTOS: You and your party have been condemned by an overwhelming majority and your sentence is ejection into space. 
DOCTOR [on monitor]: Are you aware that you might be committing your entire community to a slow extinction? Trust me. Allow me, help me to find a new cure for this fever of yours. 
ZENTOS: The verdict has been given. 
(Zentos switches off the monitor.) 
ZENTOS: Well? 
MANYAK: You are right, of course. 
BACCU: Of course, there's no question. 
MANYAK: But can we not afford to take a chance? After all, the old man was the first to diagnose the illness. For that reason alone, he may be able to find a cure. 
ZENTOS: No. Sentence will be carried out. Baccu, assemble the Monoids. They may proceed. 
BACCU: Very well. 
COMMANDER [OC]: Wait! This has gone far enough.

[Commander's room]

COMMANDER: Zentos, this is your Commander speaking. I order you to release the travellers immediately. They will be given every facility for research. They may be our only hope. See to it.

[Control deck]

ZENTOS: But the hearing decided differently, Commander. These people are dangerous.

[Commander's room]

COMMANDER: Don't argue with me, Zentos. Those are my instructions. But in case you are right, I wish the Doctor to use his young friend as a guinea pig. If he succeeds in curing him, then I will set aside the verdict of the court. Now, proceed. 
MELLIUM: Thank you father.

[Control deck]

ZENTOS: Very well. If he has not decided wisely, we will not live to know it.

[Detention Room]

DOCTOR: At last we're near a solution. We must waste no more time. Now you two, get the boy up to the table. 
(Two Guardians carry Steven to the table and lay him down.) 
MELLIUM: Is there anything we can do to help, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, cover him. We must keep him warm at once. 
MELLIUM: Warm? But he's already sweating with the fever in the same way that my father is. 
DOCTOR: My dear young lady, please do as you're told. Now, where is that other young woman I want? 
DODO: Here I am, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh good, now look here. Go to the Tardis and bring these things back for me, will you? 
(The Doctor gives Dodo a piece of paper.) 
MELLIUM: Will these do? 
DOCTOR: Yes, certainly, fine, fine. 
DODO: How will I know where to find them? 
DOCTOR: Well open your eyes, my dear child, otherwise you won't be any use to me, will you? 
DODO: Okay. 
DOCTOR: What did you say? 
DODO: I said, okay. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I thought you did. Now once this crisis is over, I'm going to teach you to speak English. 
BACCU: I shall go with her. 
DOCTOR: Right, off you go. 
(Dodo and Baccu leave.) 
RHOS: Doctor, our virologists are willing to give you all the help you need. Can you describe the virus responsible? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I 
MELLIUM: I've wrapped Steven warmly. Is there anything else I can do? 
DOCTOR: Yes, now I want you to find all the sick people in this spaceship and give them the same treatment. 
MELLIUM: You mean keep them warm? 
DOCTOR: Exactly, my child. Yes. 
MELLIUM: Very well. 
DOCTOR: Oh, and my child? 
MELLIUM: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: That also includes your father. 
(Mellium leaves.) 
DOCTOR: Now, this germ. This germ is

[Control deck]

(Dodo, Baccu and their Monoid guards return with the items on the list.) 
RHOS: The vaccine was used as long ago as the twentieth century and then was lost in the time of the primal wars. 
BACCU: Is that what he's trying to find now? The old vaccine? 
RHOS: Yes, he says it's a natural compound derived from animal membranes. We only need to take single specimens and then we can release the animals again. But it means that a large scale hunt has to be organised out there in the jungle. 
BACCU: leave that to me. I'll collect a party of Guardians and Monoids. Tell us what animals you need. 
RHOS: Well, we need two

[Jungle]

(The hunt takes place. One Monoid sees to a near-unconscious elephant whilst another deals with a lizard.)

[Detention Room]

DOCTOR: Yes, I know I'm a bit of a quack, but the combination of these two membrane fluids, a little at a time, should do the trick. 
(The Monoid passes a test tube without being asked.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, thank you, thank you. You know, you're far more knowledgeable than most people realise, aren't you? 
(The Doctor puts his concoction into the test tube.) 
DOCTOR: Now, my dear Dodo, how is he? 
DODO: He's conscious, Doctor, but only just. Are you going to try it now? 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't see why not, yes. Now where is that sterilised postule? 
(The Monoid brings the tray of test tubes.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank you, thank you, yes. You know, I don't know what I would do without you. 
DODO: Do you really think it'll work? 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't see why not, my dear, providing I've mixed these properly. 
DODO: And what if you haven't? 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't let that cross our minds, for heavens sake. Now then, here we are. 
(He puts the patch on Steven's arm.) 
DODO: Don't you have to squirt it into his arm? 
DOCTOR: What, with a hypodermic needle? Good gracious, no. That went out a long time ago. There we are. Now all we have to do is to wait and watch. Come along. 
DODO: Where are you going? 
DOCTOR: I'm going to treat the others precisely the same way as I've treated Steven. 
DODO: Isn't that a bit dodgy? I mean, he was supposed to be the guinea pig, wasn't he? 
DOCTOR: Well it's going to be much dodgier my child, as you say, if I just sat and did nothing. Come along. 
(The Doctor and the Monoid leave)

[Commander's room]

(The Doctor puts a patch on the Commander's forearm.) 
DOCTOR: There now. Just relax and rest. 
MELLIUM: Is there anything further I can do? 
DOCTOR: No, it's just a matter of time, my dear. Come along.

[Control deck]

MANYAK: How long must we wait? 
BACCU: They weren't sure. Apparently once the injection has been given, there's no way to hurry the response of the patient. 
MANYAK: Zentos is waiting like a vulture, just in case the treatment doesn't work.

[Detention Room]

(Steven is tossing and turning.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I've given him the right treatment. 
DODO: Doctor, it's along time now since you gave him that stuff and the fever only seems to be getting worse. 
DOCTOR: Well, it's about an hour, my dear. He seems to be reacting quite normally. Yes, he's fighting it. 
(Then Steven goes limp.) 
DODO: Has something gone wrong? 
DOCTOR: The fever's down and the temperature's dropped. 
DODO: You mean? 
DOCTOR: I mean he's going to be all right, my dear. 
(Dodo runs out.)

[Control deck]

DODO: It's all right! Steven's much better. Everything's going to be all right! 
MANYAK: I told you it would be. 
DOCTOR: You have nothing further to worry about, sir. The sick have been tended to and the others immunised against further attack. 
ZENTOS: Thank you, Doctor. So you were right after all. 
DODO: Doctor, the Commander's fever's gone down, so he's going to be all right. 
DOCTOR: Oh, splendid, splendid. 
BACCU: Look! The scan of Earth! 
(On the screen the planet looks more like a comet.) 
ZENTOS: The last moment has come. 
(Later, by the base of the statue.) 
DOCTOR: Now, you can continue with the building of your statue and when it's finished, I'm sure it's going to look very beautiful. 
MELLIUM: Yes, our descendants will know its meaning when they put the finishing touches to it. 
STEVEN: In seven hundred years time. 
MELLIUM: Yes, in seven hundred years time. 
DOCTOR: Well, we must be off. Goodbye, sir. 
COMMANDER: Goodbye. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye, my dear. 
MELLIUM: Goodbye, Doctor. 
DODO: Goodbye. 
COMMANDER: Goodbye. 
ZENTOS: Doctor, for the fact that I mistrusted you, misjudged you, I'm sorry. 
DOCTOR: Remember your journey is very important, young man, therefore you must travel with understanding as well as hope. Goodbye, Zentos. 
ZENTOS: Goodbye Doctor. 
(The Doctor gets on board a tractor unit with Steven and Dodo on the rear, and a Monoid drives them off to )

[Jungle]

(At the Tardis, everyone goes in and it dematerialises before the Monoid drives away.) 
(Later, the Tardis re-materialises.) 
DODO [OC]: Can I go out now? 
DOCTOR: You really must let me go first, child. 
(The Doctor steps out) 
DOCTOR: Oh. Well, that's strange. Something must have gone wrong. It appears we've landed back in the same place. 
STEVEN: How? 
DOCTOR: Take a look at this, my boy. Isn't it extraordinary? Well, now, that's inexplicable.

[Control deck]

DODO: Mellium! Baccu! They can't be far away, can they? 
STEVEN: I don't know. It depends on how long ago it was. 
DODO: What? 
STEVEN: Look, there's nobody here, is there? 
DODO: We've only been gone a few seconds. Mellium! Baccu! 
(Dodo runs off.) 
DODO: Doctor, Steven, look! 
DOCTOR: What is it, my dear? What have you found? 
(Dodo is at the base of statue) 
DODO: The statue. They've finished the statue. 
(But the head of the statue isn't human, it's Monoid.)

Episode Three - The Return

[Control deck]

DODO: What happened? The head, it wasn't meant to be like that. 
STEVEN: No. It was meant to be a human being. Now it's a Monoid. Wonder why? 
(There are leaves on the floor and weeds over the equipment.) 
DOCTOR: Well I'm not sure, dear boy. However, the statue's finished. That means seven hundred years must have passed since welast stood here. 
DODO: Is that why the place looks so grotty? 
STEVEN: Must be. 
DODO: But we've only been gone a few seconds. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know, my dear. It's pretty hard for you to understand. 
STEVEN: Yes, well the Guardians said it would take seven hundred years for this spaceship to reach the planet Refusis Two. If that navigation chart's anything to go by I'd say that they're almost there. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you're right. 
STEVEN: Then where are the Guardians? Well, at least the descendants of those we knew before. Surely they should be here, guiding the ship? 
DOCTOR: I don't think that will be necessary, dear boy. It appears they've introduced some form of automatic guiding device. 
STEVEN: Yes, but you'd think one of them would be standing by to make sure nothing goes wrong. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well now, let's have a look at the scanner and see if that may help. 
STEVEN: Well that's the room with the Earth's population stored in microform. 
(The image changes to show a man holding a glass of liquid.) 
DODO: It's one of the Guardians. 
(The man puts the glass down and a hand waves him away. He bows.) 
STEVEN: That looks like a Monoid. 
DODO: Yes, but the Guardian's working as a kind of servant. 
DOCTOR: Yes, he's not the only one who's doing that. 
STEVEN: Looks like some kind of kitchen. 
DODO: Yes and they're sort of slaves, aren't they?

[Kitchen]

(A man knocks a bowl off the edge of a table, and a gas is fired at him. He clutches his hand in pain.)

[Control deck]

DODO: What was that? 
STEVEN: Looked like some kind of gun. 
DODO: But the arm? 
DOCTOR: Yes, it appears the Monoids have become overlords. 
STEVEN: Doctor, look! 
(Three Monoids and two Guardians have entered. The Monoids have collars with numbers on and are armed. They speak via a device in the collar.) 
MONOID 2: Who are you? 
STEVEN: Things have obviously changed. 
DODO: He can speak. They couldn't before. 
MONOID 2: I asked, who are you? Where did you come from? 
DOCTOR: We are visitors to this spaceship. We were here many centuries ago. We come as friends. 
MONOID 2: Friends to whom? 
DOCTOR: To all whotravel in this spaceship. 
MONOID 2: You mean of the humanoids like yourself. 
DOCTOR: Well, er, yes. But when we were here some time ago we also were friends of your forebears. They were called Monoids. Things were very different then. 
YENDOM: These strangers, they 
MONOID 2: You speak of the distant past. Following the recent revolution we are now the masters. 
DOCTOR: I see, and the human beings? 
MONOID 2: They work for us. Is that not true, Yendom? 
YENDOM: Yes. 
MONOID 2: We conquered and you obey. And these strangers, they will also obey. Now you will come with us. 
STEVEN: Where? 
MONOID 2: To our leader 
[Monoid's chamber]

(The Monoid we saw being served a glass of drink has finished it.) 
MONOID 2: Here are the strangers, One. 
MONOID 1: Wait. Look. 
(On a monitor is the scene of the travellers being driven to the Tardis at the end of episode two.) 
MONOID 1: It seems that when you were here before the Guardians of that day didn't believe that you could travel through time as well as space. Why have you come back? 
STEVEN: The Tardis made the decision. 
MONOID 1: Are you telling me that you can't control your own machine? 
DODO: What's it got to do with you? 
DOCTOR: Shush, child. 
MONOID 1: According to the history scan you brought a strange fever that killed many of our ancestors. 
DODO: But we also helped to find a cure, didn't we? I mean, the Doctor did. 
MONOID 1: He thought he did. 
DOCTOR: And what do you mean by that? 
MONOID 1: You controlled the immediate impact of the fever, but a mutation of it developed later on that sapped the will of the humans. 
DODO: You mean that it was our fault that you took over because of the fever? 
MONOID 1: In part. 
STEVEN: There were other reasons? 
MONOID 1: The main reason was the Guardians themselves. They were a simple people. They actually encouraged the research from which we developed our voice boxes and heat prods. They were totally unprepared for the conflict when it came. 
DODO: What happened to them? 
MONOID 1: Many were killed. The rest are prisoners. A fact that you will shortly see for yourselves! Two, take them away to the security kitchen and then call a Grand Council. 
MONOID 2: This way. 
(The travellers leave.) 
MONOID 1: I trust that their return won't give you any ideas, Maharis? 
MAHARIS: No. I am content to obey.

[Kitchen]

DASSUK: Who told you? 
VENUSSA: One of the subject Guardians whispered it as he passed by the door, just now. 
DASSUK: Strangers? What sort of strangers? 
VENUSSA: Human beings! 
DASSUK: Well, I'm afraid the Monoids will make very short work of them. 
VENUSSA: Well, no, they've been taken prisoner. 
DASSUK: Well, that proves it's only a rumour. Just like all the other rumours we've been hearing. Look Venussa, you know how far the Ark has travelled and the Earth itself no longer exists, so where could these so-called humans come from? 
VENUSSA: From Earth, but as it was millions of years ago. Well, they travel through time. 
DASSUK: That's impossible. I think you've been a prisoner a little too long. 
VENUSSA: Oh, but it could be true, Dassuk. Oh, don't you remember the story? Hundreds of years ago a doctor and a young couple came and then went away again. Well they were the first people to call this ship the Ark! 
DASSUK: That's just a legend. And legends won't help us regain control of the Ark. 
MONOID 2: All right, Doctor, this way, and bring your friends with you. 
VENUSSA: Doctor? 
MONOID 2: You will stay in this place and help with the task of preparing our food. You will sleep here like the others of your kind. Above all else, you must always be obedient prisoners. 
(Monoid 2 leaves.) 
VENUSSA: Doctor? Did he say Doctor? Have you been here before? 
STEVEN: Yes, we have. 
DASSUK: But, but that's incredible! How in space could you do it? 
DOCTOR: If I were to tell you, young man, you wouldn't believe me. 
STEVEN: No, besides we've got far more important things to talk about. We've got to find a way to get out of this place.

[Control deck]

MONOID 1: In a short while, Refusis will be ours. We will land there. We will create a Monoid world. 
MONOID 3: But One, what about the Guardians? 
MONOID 1: I have a simple plan that will destroy them. When we start our life on that planet it will be with no reference of any kind to the time when we were secondary beings! 
MONOID 2: That's as it should be. 
MONOID 1: But at this moment we cannot be sure of what Refusis is really like, or what kind of creatures the Refusians are. 
MONOID 2: That's true. 
MONOID 1: So I am sending a forward landing party ahead of us. 
MONOID 3: But in that case the Refusians will be forewarned. 
MONOID 1: I have thought of that. Listen. 
[Kitchen]

(Dassuk puts some powder into a pot of water and almost immediately the water turns into boiled potatoes.) 
DODO: I named this ship The Ark. They'd never heard the name 'til I used it. 
DASSUK: And you brought a strange new fever and then the Doctor cured it. 
VENUSSA: Of course. Take no notice of him, Doctor, he was born a cynic. 
DOCTOR: He'll probably die one unless we do something quickly about this situation. 
STEVEN: Listen, are there many other Guardians like yourselves held prisoner? 
DASSUK: Oh, not many. The Monoids only keep us alive because they enjoy being waited on. 
DODO: Why don't you just jump on them? They're pretty slow moving creatures, Monoids. 
DASSUK: You forget they're armed and we're not. And those heat prods can be pretty lethal. 
STEVEN: Right, but we could take the chance and seize one. Challenge them at their own game. 
DASSUK: No, they're too careful. They never put them down. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we shall have to be pretty urgent too. Time is running out.

[Control deck]

MONOID 1: While the others are preparing the launcher, go and get the Doctor and the girl. 
MONOID 2: Yes, One.

[Kitchen]

DODO: Do you think you can do it? 
DASSUK: We must try. Otherwise 
DODO: What? 
DASSUK: There'll be no future for us, and our forefathers might just as well've stayed on the Earth and died with it. 
VENUSSA: They're coming back. 
(Monoid 2 enters) 
MONOID 2: What is this? Why aren't you working? 
(Venussa knocks over a pot. Monoid 2 steps towards her.) 
STEVEN: Now! 
(Steven and Dassuk tackle Monoid 2 but have not got his weapon when Monoid 3 enters.) 
MONOID 3: Back! 
(Monoid 3 kills a man, and Steven and Dassuk let go.) 
MONOID 2: Get back. You are reckless and stupid. Now you have gained only one thing, the death of another of your kind. Doctor! You and the girl will come with me. 
(Steven tries to follow.) 
MONOID 2: You stay here. 
STEVEN: Why? Where are you taking them? 
MONOID 2: They will make the first landing on the planet Refusis. You will be held as a security for their conduct.

[Control deck]

MONOID 3: The launcher is ready, One. The Doctor, the girl, the Guardian and Two are aboard. 
MONOID 1: Good. Then let's hope that they succeed in their mission. 
(The cylindrical module sets off towards the planet.)

[Launcher]

(They land, and the door opens.) 
MONOID 2: Out.

[Refusis Jungle]

(The Doctor goes first, followed by Dodo, Yendom and Monoid 2.) 
DODO: So this is Refusis? Where's the red carpet, then? 
MONOID 2: Perhaps the Refusians are hidden somewhere. If so, we must find them. Move carefully and don't forget that I am still armed. 
(Yendom leads the way.)

[Launcher]

A cushion sags as if an invisible person has sat on it, levers are moved and the door closes.) 
VOICE: Hmm. 
(The door opens again and the cushion springs up again.)

[Refusis Jungle]

MONOID 2: Still no sign of life. Perhaps the audio space research that told us of the Refusians was wrong. 
DOCTOR: Let us return to the launcher and send a message back to the Ark. Tell them they can make their landings quite safely. I'm sure they'll be extremely delighted to hear it. 
DODO: Yes, I bet it'll take some time to get the whole of the population down here, so the sooner you get started, the better, I should think. 
MONOID 2: Don't worry. It may not take as long as you think. 
DODO: What do you mean? Are you up to something? 
MONOID 2: Er, no. 
DODO: No? But you gave yourself away, didn't you? I've got a feeling when the time comes you're not going to bring the Guardians down here at all, is that it? 
YENDOM: But they promised! 
DODO: I don't care. I'm right, aren't I? 
DOCTOR: We were all wrong. This place is inhabited. Come, see for yourselves. 
(A few steps on, they look down into a valley and see a heavily arcaded building with spires.) 
DODO: It's a sort of a castle! MONOID 2: Why didn't the Refusians see the launcher arrive or make any moves to stop us? 
DOCTOR: Shall we find out? 
MONOID 2: Proceed. 
(As the party moves on, a plant suddenly twitches.)

[Refusis Castle]

(The Doctor enters a reception room with a tiled floor and a potted plant by the door. More flowers in a vase on a table.) 
MONOID 2: It's deserted. 
(A curtained inner door slams.) 
DOCTOR: Strange. Strange indeed. 
MONOID 2: There is no one in there. 
DOCTOR: How can you be so sure? 
MONOID 2: They must be hiding somewhere. They are just frightened creatures. 
DODO: I don't like it. This place is dead weird. 
YENDOM: What do you mean? 
DODO: Oh, it's just a feeling I've got. 
MONOID 2: I would like to see the faces of these Refusians. 
DODO: Not sure I would. If they're anything like you, I've seen enough. 
MONOID 2: What the? 
DODO: Oh, nothing. 
MONOID 2: I will challenge them like this! 
(It smashes an empty vase on the floor.) 
DODO: Oh, no! 
(Then the flowers.) 
MONOID 2: They must be in this place somewhere. When they hear what I'm doing. 
(It picks up the other vase.) 
DOCTOR: Put that thing down! That is no way to establish friendship! 
MONOID 2: The sooner they learn to respect us, the better. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Your friend is right! Put it down. 
MONOID 2: Where did that come from? 
YENDOM: I think from out there. 
DODO: No, it came from the direction of that room. 
MONOID 2: Where are you? Show yourself or I will smash 
REFUSIAN [OC]: I warned you! Put that down. 
DOCTOR: I think it comes from within this room. 
MONOID 2: Nonsense. If the Refusian seeks to challenge me, I will accept it. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: You have been warned! 
(Something seizes the Monoid's arm and forces the vase back onto the table.) 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Thank you. 
(The flowers put back into the vase.) 
REFUSIAN [OC]: As your friend said, I'm here in the room with you. 
DOCTOR: (the weapon) You won't need that now. 
[Control deck]

(By the statue.) 
MONOID 1: They must've landed by now. We should be getting a report from Two. 
MONOID 3: Yes, One. 
(He sends 34 away.) 
MONOID 3: What was the plan you had for destroying the Guardians and this spaceship? 
MONOID 1: A short while after we leave, they will disappear in a cloud of fragmented pieces. 
MONOID 3: You mean a bomb of some kind? 
MONOID 1: A fission device. I had it made secretly and it is ready to be detonated at any time. 
MONOID 3: But where is it? 
(One points up at the statue.) 
MONOID 3: Excellent, One. 
MONOID 1: The last place they would think of looking. 
[Monoid's chamber]

(Maheris is spying on his masters.) 
MONOID 1 [on monitor]: That is, if they even suspect its presence before it goes off. 
MONOID 3 [on monitor]: Why should they? Then that will be the end of all human existence. 
[Kitchen]

(Another pot of food is made just by dropping powder into the water.) 
MAHARIS: I bring you news. 
STEVEN: Why does everyone back away from him? 
VENUSSA: Because he's one of the subject Guardians. What you'd call a collaborator. 
DASSUK: And what does your news amount to? How much can we trust you? 
MAHARIS: But you must. It's important! 
VENUSSA: Go back to your masters. 
MAHARIS: What I have to say concerns us all. 
STEVEN: Perhaps we should listen. 
VENUSSA: No! He speaks with the voice of the Monoids. 
MAHARIS: No longer! They intend to betray us all. Even those of us who've worked for them. 
STEVEN: How? 
MAHARIS: They plan to leave us behind when they land on Refusis. 
VENUSSA: Would you've expected anything else? 
MAHARIS: But there's more. When they go, they'll leave a device behind that will destroy the Ark and everything in it. 
STEVEN: Are you sure of this? 
MAHARIS: Yes! I overheard One telling another Monoid. 
STEVEN: Do you know where the device is? 
MAHARIS: No. I only heard them talking, I couldn't see where One pointed. 
DASSUK: Then somehow we shall have to find out. 
[Refusis Castle]

(The Doctor is sitting at the table, talking with his invisible host.) 
DOCTOR: And that was their aim, to land there and recreate life on this planet. 
REFUSIAN [OC[: Yes. We've known for some time of the journey of the vessel you call the Ark and we welcomed it. That is why we built places like this. 
DOCTOR: I see. Just to make us comfortable? I didn't think you needed places like this for yourselves. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: No. Once we had a shape and form something like you. Then there was a galaxy accident. A giant solar flare. Now, we no longer have a being that you can see or recognise. 
DOCTOR: But can you see each other? 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Not even that. Oh, we can sense one other but that is all. That is why it would have been good for Refusis to be inhabited again by life and the signs of life, provided that the beings that come to take our place are peaceful. Child, you are worried. 
DODO: I think I can hear them coming back.

[Refusis Jungle]

MONOID 2: We must return to the launcher. We must warn One and the others so that we can prepare to deal with these unseen creatures. 
YENDOM: We, meaning only the Monoids. When you spoke of it before you meant that only you and only your kind would make the landings, didn't you. 
MONOID 2: Yendom, I do not have to account to you. 
YENDOM: I'll not let you contact them. 
MONOID 2: Yendom, stay where you are! 
(Yendom and the Two struggle, but Yendom falls and gets shot. Two goes into the launcher. Shortly afterwards, the Doctor and Dodo find Yendom's body.) 
DODO: What about the Monoid? Do you think he's gone back to the launcher? 
REFUSIAN [OC]: We'll soon see.

[Launcher]

MONOID 2: Refusis to the spaceship Ark.

[Control deck]

MONOID 1: Yes, Two. Give us your report. Are the landings possible?

[Refusis Jungle]

MONOID 2: The planet offers everything we need, but I must warn you. Listen to this carefully. 
(The bushes are pushed aside hurriedly.) 
MONOID 2: When we first arrived, we exited 
(The launcher explodes.)

[Control deck]

MONOID 1: Two, are you there? Two, answer me.

[Refusis Jungle]

(The Doctor and Dodo stare at the pile of smoking, twisted metal.) 
DODO: What do we do now? 
DOCTOR: Nothing, my dear. We shall just have to wait until the next party lands. 
DODO: What if they don't come? What if they decide to find another planet? 
DOCTOR: Well, in that case we shall just have to stay here.

Episode Four - The Bomb

[Control deck]

MONOID 3: What has happened? Why does Two no longer give us his report? 
MONOID 1: I don't know. It could mean a simple break in communications, or that he was attacked! 
MONOID 3: But his report of conditions on the planet Refusis started favourably. 
MONOID 1: Yes. 
MONOID 3: Then what do we do, One? 
MONOID 1: We will proceed with our plans. We will prepare ourselves for the main landings. 
MONOID 3: One has spoken. Get the launchers ready and prepare the Monoid population trays for the journey. 
MONOID 4: (to 6) The leader has said that we must go, but supposing he is wrong? We still don't know what Refusis is like. 
MONOID 1: At last, a new planet of our own where we can establish our own way of life. 
MONOID 3: Yes, One. But a word of warning. 
MONOID 1: What's that? 
MONOID 3: Four is beginning to question the wisdom of your leadership. 
MONOID 1: Don't worry. At the slightest sign of opposition, we can easily get rid of him. As easily as we will this spaceship, once we have left it. Remember, the final answer which is locked in the head of that statue.

[Refusis Castle]

REFUSIAN [OC]: Doctor, we are, as you know, concerned about the arrival of the Ark and what it will mean to this planet. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I can quite understand that. That is why you destroyed the Launcher? 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Here, we've always known peace. Never war or conflict. 
DODO: You're not the only ones like that. The Guardians, you know the humans who travel in the spaceship, they have used to have your ideas too. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's true my dear but, you mustn't think they were perfect. Oh, no. Sometimes they were extremely intolerant and selfish. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Is that why they were conquered by the Monoids? 
DOCTOR: Exactly. 
DODO: Yes, I know. But there are some of them left who wouldn't mind rising up against the Monoids and trying to do better. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Then we will allow them time to make their attempt. We will wait for the passing of one day before we think in terms of employing defensive measures. 
DOCTOR: Yes. One day. Thank you. 
DODO: Now, it's up to Steven and the others. 
DOCTOR: Quite so, my dear. Quite so.

[Kitchen]

STEVEN: The Monoids are up to something. They're rushing about all over the place. 
VENUSSA: Do you think they're preparing to leave the Ark? 
DASSUK: Probably. 
STEVEN: Look, isn't there a way to get out of this kitchen? 
VENUSSA: None. The walls are thick and the doors only open from the outside. 
STEVEN: Well, who opens it? 
DASSUK: Well, they do. Sometimes one of the subject Guardians. Maharis, for instance. 
STEVEN: Then we must get him to help us. 
VENUSSA: He won't. He's too frightened. 
STEVEN: All right. Then we'll have to use his help without his knowing it.

[Control deck]

(Maharis carries a tray of food to Monoid 1. Guardians are loading boxes containing miniaturised Monoids into a Launcher) 
MONOID 3: Be careful. Remember, each tray contains a thousand Monoids, thoughtfully preserved as micro-cells by your ancestors. They must reach their new life on Refusis safely. 
(Monoid 1 has eaten.) 
MONOID 3: Everything is proceeding according to plan, One. We must have 
MONOID 1: Thank you, Maharis. That is all. 
MAHARIS: Yes. One. 
(Maharis leaves with the tray.) 
MONOID 1: Stupid, trusting creature. He and all the other subject Guardians are still under the illusion that they will be coming with us to Refusis. 
MONOID 3: They are a blind people. They deserve their fate. 
MONOID 1: Yes. What were you going to say? 
MONOID 3: I was reporting that the preparation of the launchers is proceeding satisfactorily. 
MONOID 1: Good. Then we shall leave shortly.

[Kitchen]

(Steven and Venussa cover something with blankets.) 
VENUSSA: Maharis, what's the news from outside? 
MAHARIS: The Monoids are preparing to leave. 
(Steven takes him to one side while Dassuk goes for the open door) 
STEVEN: And you still think they'll take you? 
MAHARIS: Why not? We can serve them on Refusis as well as here. Just a moment. Where's Dassuk? 
VENUSSA: Asleep. 
(The blankets in the corner.)

[Corridor]

(Dassuk hides until Maharis leaves and the coast is clear of Monoids, then opens the door.) 
DASSUK: Hurry. I don't think he saw me, though we haven't much time. 
VENUSSA: What first? 
STEVEN: Well, we agreed. First we've got to find that bomb that the Monoids left behind.

[Control deck]

MONOID 4: The moment we land, then we decide whether One is to stay our leader. If Refusis is dangerous, we must return to the Ark before it is destroyed. 
MONOID 3: There is still no contact from Two on Refusis, One. 
MONOID 1: Never mind that. We will now go there ourselves. Give the signal. 
(An alarm sounds.) 
STEVEN: What's that? 
VENUSSA: The main landing order. 
STEVEN: So they're not going to wait any longer.

[Launcher]

MONOID 3: What about the bomb? 
MONOID 1: It is set. It is timed to explode in twelve hours from now.

[Control deck]

(Three capsules leave the Ark and head for the planet.) 
MAHARIS: Steven was right. The Monoids have all gone. Every one of them! 
DASSUK: What now? 
STEVEN: Just find that bomb. 
(Everyone scatters to search.) 
STEVEN: (to Venussa) We've got to find a way of getting back to Refusis. 
[Refusis Jungle]

(The capsules have landed.) 
MONOID 1: Good. Everything seems to be quiet. And from this moment on, this planet is ours! 
MONOID 3: Look. 
(They go to the destroyed lander.) 
MONOID 3: There is the reason why Two failed to complete his message to us. 
MONOID 1: A reason and a warning. We must find who destroyed that launcher, and then destroy them! 
(The Doctor and Dodo watch One and Three leave.) 
MONOID 4: One made a mistake in bringing us here. We will have to wait for our chance, then challenge him and return to the Ark. There is still time before it is destroyed by that bomb that has been left behind. Come. We must not let One and the others get out of our sight. 
(The rest of the Monoids leave.) 
DOCTOR: Now. 
(Dodo and the Doctor get into an empty capsule.)

[Control deck]

STEVEN: It could be anywhere. The corridors, in the jungle over there, in the cultivated lands. 
VENUSSA: We'll find it. We must! 
STEVEN: What's that? 
VENUSSA: It's one of the launchers trying to make contact. We're in contact. Who is that? 
DOCTOR [OC]: This is Refusis contacting spaceship Ark. 
STEVEN: It's the Doctor. Hello Doctor, this is Steven.

[Launcher]

DOCTOR: Oh, thank heaven, Steven, my boy, you're safe. Now listen. The Ark is about to blow up!

[Control deck]

STEVEN: We know that. Do you know where the bomb is? 
DOCTOR [on viewscreen]: No, I do not, but I'm going to find out from the Monoids. In the meantime, I'll send back some of the launchers to the Ark. Now, continue with the search! 
STEVEN: All right, you heard what he said. Let's get started.

[Launcher]

DODO: But Doctor, how are you going to talk to the Monoids and how are you going to send the launchers back to the Ark? 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Yes Doctor, how? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm glad you heard that. You know, these launchers are simple to operate and I would like to suggest, my friend, that you fly them back to the Ark. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Me? 
DOCTOR: Yes, the Monoids won't know who's taking them. And as for me talking to them, or speaking to them, as you say, well, the problem's quite simple. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Very well. We will do as you suggest. 
DOCTOR: Thank you.

[Refusis Jungle]

(The Doctor and Dodo step out of the capsule as the Monoids return.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, so we meet again. Welcome to Refusis. 
MONOID 3: Don't kill them. One will want to question them. You will come with us. 
DOCTOR: Delighted, delighted. 
(63 watches the capsule take off.) 
MONOID 3: Who is it that travels in that launcher? We have seen no one since we have been here. 
DOCTOR: Well, to tell the truth, neither have we.

[Control deck]

(By the statue) 
STEVEN: Have you checked this? 
MAHARIS: What's the use? There's nothing there. 
STEVEN: Look, there's no point standing around moping just because the Monoids promise you something and then failed you. You've got to do something to save yourself. 
MAHARIS: I believed in them! 
DASSUK: Steven, come quickly. 
STEVEN: Why? What's happened? 
DASSUK: One of the launchers has returned from Refusis. 
VENUSSA: Look!

[Launcher]

STEVEN: At what? It's empty. 
VENUSSA: I know. And it was empty when we opened the door. 
(Laughter inside the capsule.)

[Refusis Castle]

MONOID 1: Doctor, where are the Refusians? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. I haven't seen one. 
MONOID 1: You step out of the launcher, a moment later it was flown away. It must have been manned by someone. I must find the answer. 
MONOID 3: Do you think they will talk, One? 
MONOID 1: If they don't, they will die. 
MONOID 4: Perhaps. But it would seem that we will die as well. 
MONOID 1: Do you seek to challenge me, Four? 
MONOID 4: You have led us to this planet and placed us all in danger. 
MONOID 1: If that is the way you feel, then return to the Ark. 
MONOID 4: We will. Only there we have to face the danger that you created. The fission device. 
MONOID 1: Leaving you with but one problem, that of getting rid of it. But since it is inside the statue, and the statue itself is so heavy, I think that you will find the problem of disposal is not so easy. 
MONOID 4: Those of you that wish to stay in this world of the unknown, will side with One. But those who care for the future of the Monoids must come with me. 
(Four Monoids leave.) 
MONOID 3: Will you let them go? 
MONOID 1: No. 
(He takes 77's weapon from him.) 
MONOID 1: We'll destroy them in the open, and we will deal with you and the Refusians later. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. It's very kind of you.

[Control deck]

STEVEN: Well, I think we should split up. Some of us should go back to Refusis to help the Doctor and Dodo, whilst the rest stay here and try to deal with that bomb. 
DASSUK: Yes, that's a good idea. 
MAHARIS: Is it? Why should any of us stay and risk being blown up? 
STEVEN: Because the Earth's population trays, everything else that represents Earth life, all these things have to be taken to Refusis later. 
VENUSSA: Steven's right. That's why our forefathers started this voyage through space in the first place, seven hundred years ago. 
MAHARIS: But we're alive. Why should any of us die for an idea that they thought of? 
VENUSSA: You've served too long with the Monoids, Maharis. You no longer belong to us. Let him go with the landing party. 
STEVEN: Yes, all right. Dassuk, you take the launcher. Go with him, Maharis. And you two. Contact the Doctor as soon as you can. I'll stay here. 
DASSUK: All right. What about you, Venussa? 
VENUSSA: I'll stay too. 
DASSUK: Right. 
(Dassuk leaves.) 
STEVEN: You could have gone with them. 
VENUSSA: They don't need me. You don't know the Ark. You will need me to help you find the bomb. 
STEVEN: Let's try behind that central scan.

[Refusis Jungle]

(It's an ambush.) 
MONOID 1: Stay where you are. 
MONOID 4: What is the meaning of this? We are going back to the Ark. 
MONOID 1: That is now against my orders. 
MONOID 4: Your orders? You have given too many and delivered them unwisely. Now they mean nothing to us. 
MONOID 1: You have had my last warning. Do as I say. 
(He kills 6, then 4 shoots 77. The Monoids all hide as a capsule comes in to land.)

[Launcher]

DASSUK: Maharis, where are you going? 
MAHARIS: Out. 
DASSUK: Better make sure everything's all right first.

[Refusis Jungle]

(Maharis looks around and sees One behind a bush.) 
MAHARIS: Master! 
(One kills Maharis.) 
MONOID 4: Over there. 
(Another Monoid dies.)

[Launcher]

DASSUK: Come on, while the Monoids are fighting. 
[Refusis Jungle]

[Refusis Castle]

(Dassuk bursts in and sees the Monoid.) 
DASSUK: Master, One needs your help down there. 
(The Monoid leaves.) 
DASSUK: Are you safe? 
DODO: Course we are! 
DOCTOR: What is more important, is the Ark still all right? 
DASSUK: So far, but they haven't found the bomb yet. 
DOCTOR: We have found the bomb. We must warn them immediately. Come along. 
DODO: But what about the Monoids? 
DASSUK: The way they were fighting, there won't be many of them left. 
DOCTOR: Splendid! Come along.

[Refusis Jungle]

(Monoid corpses litter the ground. 4 throws down his weapon when the Doctor, Dodo and Dassuk arrive.) 
DOCTOR: To the Launcher!

[Launcher]

DOCTOR: Now, you fly us back to the Ark. Meanwhile, I'll contact Steven.

[Control deck]

STEVEN: It's up there, in the head of that thing. 
VENUSSA: The statue? But how are we going to move it? It's so heavy. 
STEVEN: Well, you must have some lifting gear. We only need to get it into one of the launching bays. 
VENUSSA: We've nothing that can handle anything like that. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: I think I can help you. Clear this main deck. 
VENUSSA: It's moving! 
STEVEN: Yes, well, let's hope the movement doesn't set it off. 
(The huge statue and base float up.) 
STEVEN: He's moving it as if it meant nothing at all. 
VENUSSA: Now it's in the launching bay. We can do the rest. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: It is ready for firing. 
(In the safety of space - kaBOOM!) 
(Later, everyone is back on board) 
DODO: Do you think you'll be able to get everything down onto Refusis now? 
DASSUK: We'll manage, especially if the Refusians help us. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: We'll do everything we can to assist you in settling on our planet. 
DASSUK: Thank you. 
REFUSIAN [OC]: But one thing you must do. 
VENUSSA: What's that? 
REFUSIAN [OC]: Make peace with the Monoids. 
DOCTOR: He's right. A long time ago, your ancestors accepted responsibility for the welfare of these Monoids. They were treated like slaves. So no wonder when they got the chance, they repaid you in kind.
REFUSIAN [OC]: Unless you learn to live together, there is no future for you on Refusis. 
DASSUK: We understand. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you must travel with understanding as well as hope. You know, I once said that to one of your ancestors, a long time ago. However, we must be going. Goodbye. 
(They get on a transporter and leave. Again) 
VENUSSA: Do you think we'll ever see them again? 
DASSUK: Perhaps, but if we don't our children will, or our children's children. 
VENUSSA: If we were to tell them the story, do you think they'd believe us, or would they just dismiss it as a legend? 
DASSUK: We'll make them believe it. 
(On a monitor, the Tardis dematerialises.)

[Tardis]

STEVEN: We're landing now, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Good. That means the gravitational bearing must have rectified itself. 
DODO: Hey, look at this! 
(Dodo has found some sixties psychedelic gear.) 
DODO: Ain't it fab? 
STEVEN: Yes. Very nice. 
(The Doctor sneezes) 
STEVEN: Bless you. 
DODO: Oh Doctor, don't say you're catching a cold now. 
(The Doctor has vanished.) 
STEVEN: Doctor? Well, where are you? 
(The Doctor fades in and out then disappears.) 
DOCTOR [OC]: What do you mean, dear boy? I'm still here. 
STEVEN: Huh? 
DODO: Doctor, you've vanished! 
DOCTOR [OC]: What? Oh, nonsense, child. Nonsense! 
DODO: You have. Do you think this is something to do with the Refusians? 
STEVEN: Why, it must be. 
DOCTOR [OC]: You're wrong! This is something far more serious. We're in grave danger. This is some form of attack!

[Tardis]

STEVEN: We're landing now Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Good. That means the gravitational bearing must have rectified itself. 
(DODO enters.) 
DODO: Hey, look at this! 
(Dodo has raided the ship's wardrobe for a trendy new dress. 
DODO: Ain't it fab? 
STEVEN: Yes, very nice. 
(The Doctor sneezes.) 
STEVEN: Bless you. 
DODO: Oh Doctor, don't say you're catching a cold now. 
(But as the young friends turn towards the Doctor, he's nowhere to be seen.) 
STEVEN: Doctor? Well, where are you? 
DOCTOR: What do you mean, dear boy? I'm still here. 
STEVEN: What? 
DODO: Doctor, you've vanished! 
DOCTOR: What? Oh, nonsense, child. Nonsense. 
DODO: You have. Do you think this is something to do with the Refusians? 
STEVEN: Well, it must be. 
DOCTOR: You're wrong. This is something far more serious. We're in grave danger. This is some form of attack! 
STEVEN: But we're still in the Tardis! 
DOCTOR: That may be, my boy, but wherever it is, it has great power and can penetrate our safety barrier. 
(The Tardis has materialised in the centre of an empty octagonal room.) 
DOCTOR [OC]: Don't just stand there, dear boy, turn on the scanner. 
DODO: But Doctor. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Don't ask questions, child. There isn't time. Turn on the scanner. 
STEVEN: It isn't working. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Yes, it is. When it isn't working, the screen is not as clear as that. This is part of the same trick. 
DODO: But what are we to do? Let's take off at once. 
DOCTOR [OC]: That might be worse, my dear. Besides, I'm not only invisible, I'm intangible, which means that I can't pull the switches. 
STEVEN: Well, I'll do it if you tell me what to do. 
DOCTOR [OC]: No! Whatever it is, we shall have to face up to it. Open the doors. 
STEVEN: But, Doctor! 
DOCTOR [OC]: Open the doors! 
(Reluctantly, Steven obeys.) 
DODO: We should go. 
STEVEN: We can't. 
DODO: Hey, if the Doctor's intangible, why did he need to open the doors? He could have just walked through them. 
STEVEN: Habit, I suppose. Come on, we should follow. 
DODO: You won't get me out there. 
(Steven steps outside.)

[Toymaker's office]

(In a striking office a man is dressed in the bejewelled robes of a Chinese Mandarin. His surroundings, a strange mixture of ultramodern and ornate, include a large desk incorporating a control panel and an elegant triangular gaming table. Everyone say Hi! to the wonderful Michael Gough.)
TOYMAKER: You'll serve my purpose admirably. You're very good at games. Clowns always are. You can show Steven and Dodo some of your tricks into the bargain. 
(The man has selected a pair of toy clowns, one happy and one sad, from the nursery of a large Victorian dolls house. The happy one is a girl dressed in a harlequin costume. The sad one is a boy in a white baggy suit with ruffles and a cone-shaped clown hat. Now, before his eyes, the dolls begin to grow.)

[Toyroom]

DODO: If you want to go, then you go, but I'm sure that the Doctor would. Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Hmm? What is it? 
DODO: There you are! 
STEVEN: We can see you! Everything's all right. 
DOCTOR: Oh, you can see me? 
STEVEN + DODO: Yes! 
DOCTOR: Well, splendid. Splendid. 
DODO: Oh, let's go now. It must have just been the Refusian influence after all. 
STEVEN: What's this extraordinary place? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not quite sure, dear boy, but it's, it's somewhat familiar. 
DODO: It looks dead boring to me. Come on. 
DOCTOR: No, wait, child, wait. 
DODO: Why? 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't think it was the Refusian's influence that made me become intangible. No, I think it was something here, and I don't like the feel of the place anymore than you do but we have to face up to it. You know, I think I was meant to come here. 
STEVEN: Hey! Look! That's me! 
DODO: What is? 
STEVEN: Here, on this screen! 
DODO: What screen? 
STEVEN: Here! That's me on the planet Kemble. 
(To Dodo the screen is blank.) 
DODO: There's nothing there. 
DOCTOR: But I believe I now know where we are. 
STEVEN: It's changed again. There I am in Paris. 
DOCTOR: Now turn around this instant! Turn away from it, dear boy! We're now in the world of The Celestial Toymaker, and that screen is hypnotic. He's trying to dominate your mind. 
STEVEN: But, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: There is nothing there. Do you understand me? There is nothing there at all. You must believe me. 
STEVEN: What was it? What happened? 
DODO: What's the matter, Doctor? I couldn't see anything on the screen. 
DOCTOR: Come here, child. Now whatever you do, you must not allow yourself to be trapped into looking at it. 
DODO: Who's the Celestial Toymaker? 
DOCTOR: He's a power for evil. He manipulates people and makes them into his playthings. Whatever you do, neither of you must look at that screen. It's a trap. 
(In place of the Tardis now stands the Mandarin.) 
TOYMAKER: What a spoil-sport you are, Doctor. They like my memory window. 
DOCTOR: You! I might have guessed. 
TOYMAKER: Of course. I've been waiting for you a long time. 
DODO: Where's the Tardis? 
TOYMAKER: Don't worry, my dear. Just watch over there. 
(As Dodo looks at the screen, an image appears of a young girl wearing a school beret.) 
DODO: It's me the day my mother died! 
DOCTOR: Turn away from it this instant! 
STEVEN: Look away. 
(Steven pulls Dodo to himself.) 
TOYMAKER: What a shame. I thought my little invention would amuse you. 
DOCTOR: You and your inventions, ha! Now, both of you, be very careful. This place is a hidden menace. Nothing is just for fun. 
STEVEN: What's the idea of it? 
DOCTOR: He's trying to get us into his power. That's why we've got to fight him. 
DODO: Well can't we just go? I hate this place. 
DOCTOR: My dear, but how? That is the question. 
DODO: In the Tardis, of course, as always. 
TOYMAKER: There are many of them. Take your choice. 
(On screen, rows of Tardises are filing past as if on a conveyor belt.) 
STEVEN: There are hundreds of them! 
TOYMAKER: Yes, hundreds. Come, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No! 
(Steven and Dodo turn round. The room is completely empty.) 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
DODO: Have you gone invisible again? 
STEVEN: No, he's gone. That man has taken him away. 
DODO: I don't like it. We should never have stayed. 
STEVEN: It's too late now. 
DODO: Who was that man? 
STEVEN: I don't know. But we've got to find the Doctor. 
(The only door in the room suddenly opens and two clowns enter the room on tiptoe.) 
STEVEN: What on Earth? 
DODO: Shhh! Shhh! Steven. 
STEVEN: But why have I got to be quiet? 
(Joey, the sad clown offers Steven his hand which comes away in Steven's own, as Clara, the happy clown pops a balloon with a hat pin. The newcomers mime convulsive laughter. Dodo giggles.) 
STEVEN: Very funny. Don't see what you've got to laugh about. 
DODO: If you could only see your face with that hand. 
(Joey presents Dodo with a bouquet.) 
DODO: For me? (honk) Oh thanks. No one's ever given me flowers before. 
(As she leans in to smell them, a jet of water squirts in her face. It's Steven's turn to be amused.) 
STEVEN: If you could just see your face. 
DODO: I'm not sure that I like these clowns. 
STEVEN: Look, can either of you talk? (honk) Well, how about you? 
CLARA: (very high pitched) Yes, I can talk. How are you? 
(Carmen Silvera long before 'Allo, Allo.) 
STEVEN: I'm fine. But what do you want with us? 
TOYMAKER: They're here to entertain you. Play a game with you. 
STEVEN: Well, thank you very much. We've been entertained. We don't want to play your games. Now where have you taken the Doctor? 
TOYMAKER: Taken the Doctor? Nowhere, my dear chap. The Doctor and I are going to play a little game together. You can watch the results on that board. 
(He points to the screen.) 
TOYMAKER: But you must win all your games before he does. 
STEVEN: Look, we're not interested in your games. We want to go back to the Tardis. 
TOYMAKER: That's impossible. 
STEVEN: Impossible? 
TOYMAKER: Well, not quite impossible, but you'll have to win a few games first. After each game, if you win, you will find a Tardis, which may or may not be the real one. 
STEVEN: What do you mean, the real one? 
TOYMAKER: As you have seen, I have many copies. 
DODO: So we have to win a game before we can get to the Tardis. 
TOYMAKER: Right. Several games, in fact. 
STEVEN: And if we lose? 
TOYMAKER: Then you both stay here as my guests. 
DODO: We'd better play his silly games, Steven. 
STEVEN: I don't see why we should humour him. He's obviously around the bend. 
DODO: That's just it. If we don't do as he says, we may never get out of here. 
TOYMAKER: Well? 
STEVEN: All right, we'll play your little games. But if we win, we get the Tardis back, okay? 
TOYMAKER: Agreed. 
STEVEN: And if we lose? 
TOYMAKER: You'll never see the Tardis again. 
(The Toymaker vanishes.) 
STEVEN: Wait! 
DODO: You never asked him about the Doctor. 
STEVEN: Oh, he's probably got his game to play. I'm glad we're not playing that one. 
DODO: What are we playing? 
CLARA: Blind Man's Buff!

[Toymaker's office]

(The Toymaker and the Doctor face each other across the triangular table.) 
DOCTOR: You will kindly cease this practical joking, and let us go at once. 
TOYMAKER: Patience, Doctor, patience. You've only just got here. Relax. It's so nice to see you again. 
DOCTOR: And now you have, so let us go. 
TOYMAKER: You're so innocent, Doctor. The last time you were here, I hoped you'd stay long enough for a game, but you had hardly time to turn around. 
DOCTOR: And very wise I was, too. You and your games are quite notorious. You draw people here like a spider does to flies. 
TOYMAKER: How absurd. It amuses me to give amusement. 
DOCTOR: And should they lose the game they play, you condemn them to become your toy forever. 
TOYMAKER: That is one of my rules, certainly. But if they win, they're perfectly free to go. 
DOCTOR: And if I refuse? 
TOYMAKER: Then you lose by default. Is that what you choose? 
DOCTOR: No, I do not. I should never have left the Tardis. 
TOYMAKER: You're so insatiably curious. That's why I ensured that the scanner would be blank. I knew that would bring you out. 
DOCTOR: Another one of your conjuring tricks. What game is it you want me to play? 
(The Toymaker indicates the table.) 
TOYMAKER: This. 
(Each of the three corners is inlaid with a letter, A B and C.) 
DOCTOR: The trilogic game? 
TOYMAKER: The trilogic game. A game for the mind, Doctor, the developed mind. Difficult for the practiced mind. Dangerous for the mind that has become old, lazy or weak. 
DOCTOR: You infer that my mind is getting weak and old? 
TOYMAKER: Well now, we shall see. Perhaps it is merely lazy. 
DOCTOR: How dare you. 
TOYMAKER: So you still think that you can pit your mind against mine? 
DOCTOR: Of course I can. 
TOYMAKER: Good. I hope that the time you have spent dabbling in your researches round the universe hasn't dulled you. I need you. 
DOCTOR: You need me? 
TOYMAKER: Yes. I'm bored. I love to play games, but there's no one to play against. The beings who call here have no minds and so they become my toys. But you will become my perpetual opponent. We shall play endless games together, your brain against mine. 
DOCTOR: As you said, if I win the game, I can go. 
TOYMAKER: So you can, Doctor, so you can. But I think you will lose. Can you remember how to play? 
(Ten triangular playing counters stacked in a pyramid now appear on corner A, with number 1, the smallest, at the top.) 
DOCTOR: I am only allowed to move one piece at a time. 
TOYMAKER: That is right. And you must rearrange them in the same order that they are now on point C. 
DOCTOR: And I am not permitted to put a larger piece on a small piece. 
TOYMAKER: Correct. And you have 1,023 moves to do it in. That is the exact amount. If you make one mistake, you lose. And to help you count, there. 
(He indicates a tally recorder.) 
TOYMAKER: When the two rows of numbers match, the game is over. 
(The top row reads 1023, the bottom 0.) 
DOCTOR: I see. Can I begin? 
TOYMAKER: Don't be so impatient, Doctor. 
(He points to a monitor on the wall.) 
TOYMAKER> There. We mustn't forget them. 
DOCTOR: You are not asking them to play this game. 
TOYMAKER: Good heavens, no. They are on the competitive quest. 
DOCTOR: Competitive? And who are the others? 
TOYMAKER: Two clown friends of mine. They are the home team. They will play against your friends and win the quest. 
DOCTOR: Quest? What quest? 
TOYMAKER: The hunt for the Tardis. Win the games, and you get it back.

[Toyroom]

(Thanks to the efforts of the two clowns, the floor of the toyroom now resembles a huge board game with a series of obstacles laid out between Start and Home.) 
DODO: It's rather like a Snakes and Ladders set I used to have. 
STEVEN: Looks crazy to me. 
DODO: Oh, go on, have a go. It looks fun. 
STEVEN: What, me on that? Not on your life. 
DODO: But this is the game we have to play, right? 
CLARA: This is your game. 
STEVEN: Right, then you play it. 
CLARA: Oh no! You must play it. It's all quite simple. You start here, blindfold. 
STEVEN: You must be joking. Kids game. 
DODO: Steven! Go on. 
CLARA: You have to cross these obstacles without falling down. And if you get home without falling down, you win the game. 
STEVEN: And what's old What's-His-Name there going to be doing all this time? 
CLARA: His name is Joey. I'm Clara. He will play it too, of course. 
STEVEN: And if he loses? No answer that time. And what happens if we both manage it? 
CLARA: Then we play it again until someone loses. 
STEVEN: Oh, it's a great future the Toymaker's got mapped out for us. All right, chum, you want to show me how it's done? (honk, bell, honk, bell) That means yes, I suppose. (honk) 
(Clara ties a blindfold over Joey's eyes and guides him onto the start position. The first obstacle is a set of pinnacles over which Joey must swing on a rope.) 
CLARA: You must come with me. 
(She leads Steven and Dodo into a glass-fronted booth. Inside is a control panel.) 
CLARA: This is where we control them. One buzz for right turn, two for left, three to stop, four to start. 
(Buzz buzz buzz buzz. Joey feels for the rope, unties it and swings across the pinnacles, landing sure-footedly on the first of a series of stepping stones, the second obstacle. He steps confidently from one stone to the next.)

[Toymaker's office]

(Watching the monitor alone, the Doctor finds a communication switch.) 
DOCTOR: Dodo? Steven? This is the Doctor. The game you're going to play is not so innocent as it looks. Be on your guard.

[Toyroom]

DOCTOR [OC]: If you lose this game, we shall be here forever. So watch out for

[Toymaker's office]

TOYMAKER: That was unwise of you, Doctor. 
(The Toymaker's flicked the switch.) 
DOCTOR: I must warn them. 
TOYMAKER: Attend to your own game. Go from move 152. 
(Seemingly of their own volition, the counters and tally move as the Toymaker has commanded.) 
TOYMAKER: Keep playing, Doctor. And to stop you interfering, I shall have to dematerialise you again. There. 
(Once again, the Doctor is intangible.) 
DOCTOR [OC]: You are overreaching yourself, Toymaker. How can I play this game? 
TOYMAKER: Let's see. Suppose we leave you one hand, there. I suggest you resume the game. 
(The Doctor's disembodied hand hovers over the table. With great dignity he takes counter 1 from B and places it on C, then moves counter 2 from B to A.)
TOYMAKER: I thought you'd see it my way, Doctor.

[Toyroom]

(Joey has completed the third and fourth obstacles, and reaches Home.) 
CLARA: We won! We won! 
STEVEN: Just a minute. I haven't had a go yet. 
DODO: But the Doctor warned us. 
STEVEN: It's all right, I can manage it. Rope, five stones, steps, plank, tube. Now I can do it if you can guide me. After all, he can do it. And you remember the directions? 
DODO: Right, one buzz. Left, two buzzes. Four to start and three to stop. 
(Leaving Dodo in the booth, Steven positions himself at the start of the course. Clara ties on his blindfold.) 
CLARA: Can you see? 
STEVEN: Not a thing. Right, I'm ready. 
(Clara joins Dodo whilst Joey hovers nonchalantly around the course.) 
CLARA: Ready now. 
(Buzz buzz buzz buzz. As Steven prepares to rope swing across to the stepping stones, Joey nudges the first stone out of position.) 
DODO: Look what he's doing! Cheat! You cheat! Steven, look out! 
CLARA: He can't hear you! The door's self-locking! 
(Buzz buzz buzz.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, be careful. You nearly made me fall that time. 
(Steven swings across but his feet find nothing on the other side.) 
STEVEN: What have you done now, you clown, you? 
(Honk, buzz) 
STEVEN: One right. One right? 
(He swings again, this time landing safely.) 
STEVEN: Phew, that was close. (honk) Yes, you'll honk when I get this blindfold off. Now he's moved another. He moved the first to the right, he's moved the second to the left. 
(Buzz buzz buzz.) 
STEVEN: No, what now? (buzz) To the right? (honk) You wait! 
(With Joey continuing to disrupt the course, Steven is forced to listen carefully to Dodo's signals as he gingerly negotiates the other stones. Buzz buzz. Buzz. Buzz. Eventually Steven steps off the final stone onto a stepladder and sits down to mop his brow.) 
DODO: I don't see how he has a chance of winning if you cheat all the time. 
CLARA: Cheat? Oh no. It's just a few variations. It makes it more fun. 
(For the next stage, Steven must cross a plank mounted between two sets of steps. As he's edging along, Joey tries to distract him.) 
STEVEN: What was that? (honk) You again. I warn you! (honk) Games with clowns. 
(He reaches the end and begins to climb down. The final obstacle is a large flexible tube which he must pass through in order to reach home. Buzz buzz buzz. Buzz buzz.) DODO: He's far too big to squeeze through that tube. 
CLARA: Joey did. 
DODO: But suppose he gets stuck half way, what then? 
(Once Steven has entered the tube, Joey drags the other end round to form a U shape.) 
DODO: Look what he's done! It's not fair! 
CLARA: He goes back to the start! 
DODO: And you think that's fair? Let me out of here! Open the door! 
CLARA: I can't! 
DODO: Oh, you're just like a doll! A rag doll! I don't think this funny at all. 
(Emerging from the end of the tube, Steven feels for the table marking Home. Instead, he finds the steps again.) 
STEVEN: Oh, no! 
(He tears off the blindfold.) 
STEVEN: Look, I warned you! 
CLARA: We won! We won! 
DODO: You cheated. Steven completed the course. 
CLARA: We won! Now you'll never find the Tardis! 
STEVEN: Look, it's a draw. Now let's do it again, this time with him in the booth! 
CLARA: The winner! 
DODO: Steven, look at this! You can see right through it. It's not a real blindfold at all! 
(The two clowns look crestfallen.) 
STEVEN: No wonder you were able to run round the course so easily. And now we'll try it again, only this time with a real blindfold. Not so fast! Here, put that on him. You'd better go in the booth to guide him.
(Clara obeys whilst Dodo ties the genuine blindfold round Joey's head. The room has grown darker and the clowns are suddenly sombre.) 
STEVEN: Right. Now we'll play The Toymaker's little game fairly. Go on, Dodo, start him off. 
(Buzz buzz buzz buzz. Joey begins the course once again, guided by Clara's signals.) 
DODO: Steven, I'm frightened. Have you noticed he's not funny anymore? 
(Buzz buzz. Buzz. Buzz. The clown teeters precariously on the plank.) 
DODO: Steven, you'd better stop him. He'll fall. 
STEVEN: We can't stop him. It's him or us. Go on. You can't stop now! 
(As Joey continues, his movements grow still and slow, until finally he topples over. In the booth, Clara is slumped lifeless over the controls. Suddenly all the lights go off, there's a loud thunderclap, and there illuminated at the far end of the room is the Tardis.) 
STEVEN: Come on. 
DODO: It can't be empty! 
STEVEN: It is. 
(There's only a blank cupboard behind the doors.) 
STEVEN: Look. 
DODO: What's that? 
(It's a piece of paper. Dodo reads.) 
DODO: Four legs, no feet, of arms no lack, it carries no burden on its back. Six deadly sisters, seven for choice, call the servants without voice. What does it mean? 
STEVEN: A riddle. Look, here's a way out. 
DODO: Perhaps this is to tell us where the Tardis is. 
STEVEN: Or perhaps it's just another game. Anyway, we've got to find out. 
(An exit has opened up at the back of the cupboard. Before following Steven through, Dodo glances back at the clowns. Twisted wooden dolls return to their proper size. With a shudder, she runs from the room.)

Episode Two - The Hall of Dolls

[Cupboard]

(Steven and Dodo face yet another panelled door, this one heavily bolted and with a sign saying 'Pull to open.' One panel shows a numeric display.) 
DODO: This is the next game? 
STEVEN: No. We'll find the next game behind this door. 
DODO: How can you be sure? 
STEVEN: Look. 
DODO: The Doctor's move recorder for his game. 
STEVEN: Yes, I know. This door's here to delay us. I think we're meant to try to get it open. The Toymaker's hoping that we'll waste time. 
(They undo all of the locks.) 
STEVEN: That should do it. It won't open. 
DODO: But it must. What's wrong with it? I know, let's pull instead. 
(They do so, and the door flies open, offering them a view of the first Chair Room.)

[Toymaker's study]

(The Doctor's hand makes his 417th move.) 
DOCTOR: I haven't made a mistake yet. 
TOYMAKER: Let's hope not, Doctor. I would hate you to end up in my dolls' house. I reserve that fate for your two friends. 
DOCTOR: They'll win, too. 
TOYMAKER: No, they will lose one game, and then, like the clowns, they'll become my toys, and we shall be able to amuse ourselves through all eternity. 
DOCTOR: What do you mean? 
TOYMAKER: You remember the agreement? They must find your Tardis before you finish your game. If they don't, then you will have to stay here and you'll be in my power forever. Look, they've already reached their next test. 
DOCTOR: That game? I might have known. 
(The hand presses a communicator.) 
DOCTOR: Steven! Dodo! Take care. It's chair number 
TOYMAKER: You fool! Now I have been forced to make you dumb as well as intangible. You cannot speak until you have reached the second to last move of the trilogic game. Now then, let them play their games whilst you play yours. Go from move 444. And no more clever tricks, if you please. 
(As the counters move themselves into new positions, the Toymaker spreads a pack of playing cards on his desk.) 
TOYMAKER: Your friends managed to outwit my clowns. I shall have to find more worthy opponents for them. There. I think perhaps the Heart family. They have great experience in a great variety of games.

[First Chair room]

STEVEN: The Doctor was trying to warn us. 
TOYMAKER: I'm seriously annoyed with your friend. Once again, he tried to talk to you, so I've had to deprive him of his voice. Let it be a warning to you. Play the games according to the rules I set, or give up now. 
STEVEN: The rules you set? Your own players break them. They cheat! 
DODO: How can we believe anything you say? Everything here is so strange. 
STEVEN: We can't even be certain that that was the Doctor's voice we heard at all. It could have been you leading us toward another trap. 
TOYMAKER: I'm glad to see you're at last treating me with respect. 
DODO: Only as long as you have the Doctor. After that, we'll see 
STEVEN: Forget it, Dodo, he's gone. 
(The room contains three elaborate numbered thrones.) 
STEVEN: What odd looking chairs. Perhaps these are what the Doctor was trying to warn us about. 
QUEEN: Is this the room? Is this the room, I said. 
(Carmen Silvera in another role.) 
KING: Oh, er I think so, my dear. 
(Joey the clown reborn) 
QUEEN: And I suppose these are the people we have to play against. 
KING: Hmm? Oh! Oh! Peasants, my dear. 
QUEEN: Peasants! 
STEVEN: Just a minute. Who do you think you're calling a peasant? 
DODO: Steven, don't you see who they are? 
STEVEN: Well, yes, they do look familiar. 
DODO: They're playing cards. We shall play our next game with a couple of playing cards. 
STEVEN: The Toymaker's warped sense of humour, I suppose. 
QUEEN: None of these look in the least like your throne. 
KING: Hmmm? No, no, no, they don't, do we my dear. Although the Toymaker did say we'd find them in here, didn't he? 
STEVEN: What was that riddle again? 
DODO: Er, four legs, no feet, of arms no lack, it carries no burden on its back. 
STEVEN: That must be these chairs. 
DODO: But what about the rest of it? Six deadly sisters, seven for choice, call the servants without voice. 
STEVEN: Hmmm. Well that can't be the chairs. There are only three of them. 
QUEEN: You're not paying the least attention again. I warned you, if we don't find that throne, he'll keep us here. We shall remain playing cards for the rest of eternity. 
KING: Ah! Very good point, my dear. Yes, yes, we must find the throne. 
DODO: What do you make of them? They seem almost like real people. 
STEVEN: Oh, ignore them. They're sent here to distract us. Let's take a look through here. 
QUEEN: Where's that Knave? Cyril! Cyril! Tormenting the Joker again I'll be bound. 
(The Knave of Hearts, Cyril, enters with the Joker. 
JOKER: Did you have to give him that sword? 
QUEEN: Quiet, Fool. Cyril, what are you doing? 
CYRIL: Nothing. Just playing with the Fool. I'm hungry. 
(This ought to be Gerald Campion aka Billy Bunter, but it's not. Looks and sounds very similar though. Younger readers, think Christopher Biggins. If you must.) 
KING: Ho, ho! The boy's always hungry. 
JOKER: He's a pig. 
QUEEN: What did you say? 
JOKER: I said, give him a fig. I thought there was a throne to find. 
QUEEN: So there is. Where have those peasants gone? 
KING: Hmm? Oh, through that door, my dear. 
QUEEN: Why didn't you tell me? 
KING: Well, you never asked, me dear. 
QUEEN: We must follow them at once. 
KING: Oh. 
QUEEN: Fool, you stay here and look after these chairs. 
KING: Oh, but, now that the Fool is here, don't you think we could have a joke or two? 
QUEEN: No! Come on. 
KING: Oh, well, then, a riddle then? Or a merry quip? 
QUEEN: Are you coming? 
KING: Oh, yes, my dear.

[Second Chair room]

(Steven and Dodo have slipped away down a side passage. They find themselves in a second chair room containing four more chairs numbered from four to seven. Set into the walls are four familiar looking cupboards.) 
STEVEN: Dodo! Four in here, three in there. It must be the chairs. What is it? Six deadly sisters, seven for choice. I suppose that means six of them are dangerous. 
DODO: And only one is the right one. 
STEVEN: We'll have to find out which one by elimination. But how? And how dangerous are they? 
DODO: No, Steven, don't. 
STEVEN: Why? What's wrong? 
DODO: Don't risk it. None of the Toymakers' toys are just jokes. Six of these chairs will destroy us. 
STEVEN: It's a charming thought, but you're probably right. But Dodo, have you noticed all these cupboards? They're all exactly the same shape as the Tardis. 
DODO: Yes, but they could be as dangerous as the chairs. 
STEVEN: No, I don't think so. There are only four, and there weren't any in the other room. 
(He opens the first cupboard. Dodo screams.) 
STEVEN: It's all right, they're only dolls. 
DODO: I've got it. We'll use the dolls to sit in the chairs. If we've got enough that is. That's four here, and these three make up the seven. 
STEVEN: Don't touch them! 
DODO: Why? What's wrong? 
STEVEN: Well, they may be dangerous, too. 
DODO: But the riddle said six deadly sisters, and some of these are men dolls. 
STEVEN: What was the last line again? 
DODO: Erm, call the servants without voice. But you can't call someone without speaking. 
STEVEN: But they haven't got voices. We have. Dolls, come out! Look, they must be the servants. Maybe it's some poetic term, the call bit. 
(When none of the mannequins stir, Steven pulls four of them out onto the floor.) 
STEVEN: Nothing's happened yet. Well, if we can get them all out before the king and queen get here, we can test the chairs. 
DODO: Wait. With seven dolls in three cupboards, what's the other one for? 
STEVEN: Perhaps that might be the real Tardis. 
(Whilst they're examining the cupboard the other door slides shut, leaving three dolls still inside.) 
DODO: It won't open. 
STEVEN: Of course, the Doctor's got the key. Come on, look! 
(He points to a game tally.) 
STEVEN: The Doctor's more than half way through his game already. We've got to find out what we've got to do here first, quick, before the others arrive. 
QUEEN: Ah, the peasants again. Caught you in the act. What are you up to? 
KING: Oh, they seem to be playing with dolls, my dear. 
QUEEN: I can see that. The point is, what are they doing with them? 
DODO: They seem very real. We're going to use the dolls to test the chairs. 
QUEEN: To test them? 
DODO: Yes. Six of them are dangerous and only one is safe. You know, I feel very foolish talking to a playing card. 
QUEEN: A playing card? 
DODO: Well, aren't you? 
STEVEN: Dodo, it's useless talking to them. They're just products of the Toymaker's imagination. 
QUEEN: We're as real as you are. Henry. 
KING: Oh, er, yes, my dear? 
QUEEN: Come here. 
KING: Yes, my dear. 
QUEEN: Let this wretched child feel your arm. 
KING: Feel my arm? 
QUEEN: There, child. Isn't that an arm? Not much of one, I grant you, but nevertheless, a real arm. 
DODO: It is, Steven, these are real people. Feel his arm. 
STEVEN: No, I'll take your word for it. Look, if you're real people, what are you doing here? And why are you wearing those ridiculous clothes? 
KING: Ah yes, well, it would take a little too long to explain, my boy. The fact is that we are victims of the Toymaker, the same as you are. For instance, if I were to sit in this chair. 
QUEEN: Henry, no! We don't know. 
KING: Oh! Oh, no, no, no, we don't, do we? 
QUEEN: We must use the dolls. We'll each choose a doll in turn, and then we'll take it in turn to test the chairs, that way we'll find the answer even quicker. 
DODO: We found the dolls. They're ours. And we're supposed to be playing against you. 
QUEEN: But that doesn't seem right. There are four dolls and four of us. We must be meant to have one each. That's only fair. 
KING: And then we can test the dolls sitting in the chair before doing so ourselves? 
DODO: What do you mean, one each? What about 
STEVEN: It's all right, Dodo. 
DODO: Yes, but what about 
STEVEN: It'll be all right. Now never mind and keep quiet. All right, go ahead. Choose your dolls. 
DODO: But I don't understand. What about the others? 
KING: Oh, no no no, don't fuss yourself, m'dear. The point of the game is to see who picks the chair which isn't dangerous, and whoever does that is the winner. If it's you, you'll get your Tardis back, and if it is us, we get our liberty. 
STEVEN: Now, he's right Dodo. Now go on, choose your doll, and keep quiet. We'll try our luck in the other room. 
DODO: Oh, very well. 
KING: Oh, are you going, m'dear? 
STEVEN: We'll see you later. 
QUEEN: I thought we were all supposed to play this game together? 
STEVEN: Well as there are seven chairs, I thought that Dodo and I might try our luck in the other room. That way we'll all have an equal chance. 
KING: Ah, yes, yes, yes, certainly my boy, yes, anything you like. Yes, well, good luck. 
STEVEN: Come on, Dodo. 
DODO: All right, I'm just coming. They're so big. 
(Armed with a doll each, Steven and Dodo take their leave.) 
KING: Charming couple, aren't they? 
QUEEN: It isn't very charming to be told you're not real. We were not amused. Well, which chair do you suggest? 
KING: Yes, well, none of them look like the throne, do they m'dear? 
QUEEN: Well, then you must pick one at random. 
KING: Ah, yes of course, random, yes, yes. Ah, now. 
(The King closes his eyes and is about to sit in chair seven.) 
KING; Eenie meenie minie moe, catch a nigger by the toe. Ah! 
QUEEN: No, Henry! Put the doll in it. 
KING: Oh, the doll, yes, quite right, yes, my dear, of course, the doll. Ah, here we are then. Now then, we'll take the doll and then. Oof. I say, it's rather heavy, my dear. Nearly as heavy as I am, I've no doubt that this will be perfectly good test for the 
(A metal clamp secures the doll and it begins to vibrate furiously.) 
QUEEN: Henry!

[First Chair room]

(The Joker and Cyril are asleep in the first room.) 
STEVEN: Oh, no. Not more playing cards. 
DODO: They look rather sweet, don't they? A Jack and a Joker. 
STEVEN: Leave them alone and concentrate. You nearly gave the game away in the other room. They think that there are only four dolls. Now if everyone chooses the wrong chair with those dolls, we're going to need the extra ones to find the right chair. 
DODO: Is that fair? They seem quite nice and friendly. 
STEVEN: Can't you understand? We've got to win every game, otherwise we'll never see the Tardis again. This isn't a children's party. 
DODO: Well, I'm sure if you explained that then the King and Queen would help us. 
STEVEN: Oh, Dodo, they belong to the Toymaker, remember that. He wants to keep us here. At any rate, the Doctor. 
DODO: Why? 
STEVEN: I don't know, and it doesn't matter. But we've got to find the Tardis before the Doctor finishes the game he's playing. Right. Throw your doll into a chair. 
DODO: Throw it? 
STEVEN: Yes. Six of these chairs are deadly, remember that. I don't want to see either of us caught out by one of those. Now throw it. 
DODO: Very well. 
(As the doll makes contact with chair number three, there's a blinding flash.) 
DODO: What happened? 
STEVEN: It was some sort of electrocution! That could've been us. 
DODO: Yes. I see what you mean about this not being a children's party. 
CYRIL: A party? Is it tea time, already? Mmmm, I smell crumpets toasting. What's that? 
DODO: Oh, don't be scared of us. 
(Seeing the burnt doll, the awakened Cyril takes flight down the passageway.) 
STEVEN: All right, stand by. I'm going to try chair number one. 
(STEVEN throws his doll onto the chair. As it hits, a fearsome blade shoots across the back of the chair, cutting the toy in two. Part of it topples to one side and falls to the floor.) 
DODO: It's horrible! The Toymaker must be mad! Do you really think he means to kill us? 
STEVEN: What do you think? 
DODO: Well, what do we do now? 
STEVEN: Well, we've got to get the other dolls. We've got to get out of this place. 
DODO: We can't go in there! 
STEVEN: Why? 
DODO: Or they'll know about the three extra dolls then.

[Second Chair room]

(The King's doll is being shaken to pieces.) 
QUEEN: Henry, turn the thing off. 
KING: I don't think I can get near enough, my dear. 
CYRIL: I wish you'd stop this silly game! 
KING: Father's a very nice chair here for you, my boy. 
CYRIL: Mother! Did you hear what he said? 
QUEEN: Henry! 
KING: Well, just a harmless little joke, my dear. Yes, well, I suppose we'd better try the doll in it, don't you think? Now then, upsa dazy. We shall try the doll in this chair now. 
(He throws the remaining doll onto the chair number four. Both it and the chair slowly fade away.) 
KING: Oh dear! It's, it's disappeared! 
QUEEN: I can see that! Well, that leaves us with chairs number five and six. What do you propose we do now? 
KING: Well, I suppose we'd better see how that young couple are getting on in their room. 
QUEEN: Well, they can't have succeeded. We'd have had a visit from the Toymaker if they had. 
KING: Ah, yes, yes. Oh, we need two more dolls. Ah, yes, a pity. I know, the Fool! 
QUEEN: Oh really, Henry. How you can think of entertainment at a time like this? Oh yes, of course. I see. The Fool! 
KING: Precisely, my dear. 
(The King offers his arm to the Queen, and they leave the room. Left alone, Cyril glances fearfully at the chairs before scuttling after the other cards.) 
CYRIL: Mother! Mother!

[First Chair room]

DODO: Be careful. 
STEVEN: No, it's no use. I can't tell a thing just by looking at it. We'll have to get those other dolls. 
DODO: The King and Queen are coming. 
STEVEN: Good, I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll try to distract them. You step into the other room and test the chairs. If they're both deadly, then this must be the right one. 
KING: Ahh! Still one chair left to try, I see. 
QUEEN: Why don't you try it, girl? 
DODO: Why don't you? 
STEVEN: Haven't you had any luck either? And no more dolls. Well it looks like stalemate, doesn't it? 
KING: Ah! Not quite, my boy. Oh no, I still have one card to play, if you'll excuse the expression. 
(He nudges the Joker awake with his foot.) 
JOKER: Oh, what goes up the chimney down, and can't come down the chimney up? 
KING: Down the chimney. Oh no, no, no, my dear fellow, no, no not work. We want your advice, don't we my dear? 
QUEEN: Advice? From a Fool? 
KING: We still have to pick a throne, my dear. Ah, now then, my dear fellow, for instance, what do you think of this chair? 
STEVEN: No, you don't. Not this one. 
DODO: Steven, the cupboard with the other three dolls. It's locked. I can't open it. 
STEVEN: But you must. It was open before. 
QUEEN: Three more dolls? 
KING: And you kept them from us? 
QUEEN: Cheats! 
KING: Oh, dear, dear. 
STEVEN: Oh, you can talk after what you were about to do to this poor fellow. 
JOKER: Poor fellow? What's that? 
KING: Oh, nothing, my dear chap. Now, er, come with us. We can't leave you in such company. 
QUEEN: Certainly not. 
KING: Come on, my dear fellow. 
QUEEN: Come, Cyril! 
(The four playing cards proceed to the second chair room.) 
STEVEN: Now you've done it. You've handed them the game right on a platter. If this isn't the real chair, we've lost the game. 
DODO: I don't see that. 
STEVEN: Look, they've got two more chairs to test. They get the Joker to sit on one. If this isn't the right chair, then the other one must be. 
(Steven turns away in disgust. Dodo looks at him sadly, then moves over to chair number two and starts to sit down.)

[Toymaker's office]

TOYMAKER: You've been moving along very satisfactorily. It's especially commendable considering that young Dodo has chosen to sit in the wrong chair. The freezing chair.

[First Chair room]

STEVEN: Dodo, you fool! 
DODO: Steven, I feel cold all the way through. 
STEVEN: Stand up. 
DODO: Help me. I'm freezing. I can't move. 
STEVEN: Stand up. 
DODO: I can't! 
STEVEN: Look, try. You must. You must try. 
DODO: I think I'm turning to ice, Steven. 
STEVEN: Fight the cold. Fight it, Dodo. You've got to get out of that chair. Now fight it! 
DODO: It's no use. 
STEVEN: Look, you must try. We've got to concentrate together. 
DODO: We can't. 
STEVEN: We must. Now! 
(She grasps his outstretched hand, and he too begins to freeze. Yet with great effort he manages to pull Dodo away.) 
DODO: Oh, thank you. You did it. 
STEVEN: Oh, we did it together. 
DODO: Oh no, I couldn't do a thing. I couldn't move. 
STEVEN: Thank goodness you're safe. The Doctor would never have forgiven me if anything had happened to you. 
DODO: But, Steven, we've lost.

[Second Chair room]

KING: Well, there's a much better choice in here. Now give us your honest opinion. Which is the better chair? 
JOKER: Well, sire, I think, er, perhaps that one. 
KING: Number six? Good, good. Well, it is not possible really to test a chair by just looking at it. QUEEN: Well, come on, Fool. We haven't got all day. 
JOKER: Oh, poor fellow. Poor fellow. 
(The Joker stops and turns to look at the giggling Knave.) 
JOKER: What's he laughing at? 
QUEEN: He wasn't laughing, were you? 
JOKER: And they call me a fool. 
KING: Well, look, sit down, my dear fellow. 
JOKER: Oh, not on your life, sire. A joke's a joke. I'm giving notice. You can try out your chairs for yourself. 
(The Joker leaves hurriedly. The King moves threateningly towards Cyril, who takes flight after the Joker.) 
KING: Huh, Your son, I think, my dear. 
QUEEN: Well, what do you propose we do now? 
KING: Well, there's nothing else for it. You'll have to try out the chair. 
QUEEN: I? 
KING: Well, one of us will have to. I know, we'll draw matches. 
QUEEN: No, I don't trust your matches. We will toss for it. Heads! Ah! 
KING: You forget, my dear. I know that coin. It's got two heads. 
QUEEN: Then. 
KING: We will both sit in it. 
QUEEN: And if we go, we go together. 
KING: My love. 
(Hand in hand, they walk across to chair number six and sit down.) 
KING: Nothing happened. 
QUEEN: It's all right. 
KING: We worried for nothing. 
(Suddenly the chair collapses inwards. Steven and Dodo return to find the Hearts imprisoned.) 
DODO: Oh, the poor things. We must help them. 
STEVEN: No, not now. 
DODO: You mean? 
STEVEN: That must be the one. 
(He sits on chair number five. There's a thunderclap.) 
DODO: We've won! There's the Tardis! As soon as the Doctor wins his game, we can go! We're safe! Oh, no, it can't be. It's got to be the real one. Look! It's happened again. 
STEVEN: It's another of those that the Toymaker's made. Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Well, what now? 
DODO: You know, we never really solved that last riddle. Call the servants without voice. 
STEVEN: No. Let's try again. You never know. Dolls, dolls, wherever you are, come out! 
(The telephone in the police box rings. Steven answers it.) 
TOYMAKER [OC]: You're doing better than I thought, but don't rest on your laurels. The Doctor is succeeding even faster than you. Time and luck are running out. Here is the next clue. Hunt the key to fit the door that leads out on the dancing floor, then escape the rhythmic beat, or you'll forever tap your feet. 
STEVEN: But. 
DODO: He's gone. 
(Dodo looks around. All that remains of their opponents is two playing cards.) 
DODO: Steven, look. 
STEVEN: I said that's all they were. Never mind that now. The next game. Come. 
(They dive into the darkened passage which has appeared beyond the fake Tardis. As they go, Dodo calls out.) 
DODO: Dolls, dolls, wherever you are, come out! 
(All four cupboard doors suddenly slide open, and the three remaining dolls follow jerkily through the waiting police box door.)

Episode Three - The Dancing Floor

[Toymaker's office]

TOYMAKER: I congratulate you, Doctor, on your choice of friends. A very astute couple. Neither of my teams have been able to beat them yet. I think they have earned a little amusement. Now, what have we here to amuse them? 
(The Toymaker selects two figures from the dolls house kitchen.) 
TOYMAKER: Ah. Sergeant Rugg and Mrs Wiggs. These then are who Steven will find behind the door.

[Corridor].

(Steven and Dodo are indeed up against a solid door.) 
STEVEN: Useless. No sign of a door handle, latch, or lock. We're stuck here. 
DODO: Steven, the servants, they're following us! 
STEVEN: Huh? 
DODO: The servants without voice, they've come! They scare me. 
STEVEN: They're only dolls. 
DODO: We called them. Perhaps we can make them go back to their cupboard. Dolls, go back. Go back to your cupboard! 
STEVEN: I'll stop them. 
DODO: Steven, be careful. You don't know what they might do. After all, we helped destroy the other four dolls. 
STEVEN: Perhaps we can edge past them. 
(The three dolls spread out across the tunnel.) 
DODO: We can't get past them now. 
STEVEN: At least they've stopped. I'm going to try. You follow me. 
DODO: Look! 
(The heavy door has swung open. With the dolls now stock still, Dodo and Steven edge into the next room. )

[Kitchen]

(They find themselves in a large, old-fashioned kitchen occupied by a ruddy-faced policeman and a familiar looking household cook.) 
STEVEN: Be careful, Dodo, it might be a trap. 
RUGG: A trap? In here? In Mrs Wiggs' kitchen? Hey, you want to watch your language young fellow, me lad. 
WIGGS: Here, what do you want in my kitchen? 
(Guess who, again.) 
DODO: We're looking for the next game. Perhaps you could help us. The clue goes, Hunt the key to fit the door that leads out on the dancing floor. Then escape the rhythmic beat, or you'll forever tap your feet. 
WIGGS: The only dancing floor what I know of is through there. 
DODO: Thank you. 
(She's pointing to an old oak door with a large lock and keyhole.) 
RUGG: All right, young fellow me lad, no loitering! Pick your feet up then! Hup two three four, hup two three four. 
STEVEN: Why don't you go back in your box? 
RUGG: What's that? Why, you young whipper snapper, I'll er 
STEVEN: You'll what? 
RUGG: Well, I'll er, well you need a good hiding, me lad. 
STEVEN: And who's going to give it to me? 
WIGGS: And no fisticuffs in my nice clean kitchen, Sergeant, if you please. 
RUGG: Oh ho, it's a good thing you spoke just then, Cook. No tellin' what I mighten' a done to him if you hadn't stopped me. 
WIGGS: Oh, you're a terrible man when you're riled, Sergeant. 
RUGG: Well, army trainin', Cook. Six years with the Iron Duke. 
DODO: We've got to get in there. That's what the clue says. The Tardis must be on the dance floor. 
STEVEN: How the Toymaker expects us to play his crazy games when he locks all the doors, I don't know. 
RUGG: I'd like to have 'im in my mob. Just give me a month. I'll make a man of him. 
STEVEN: What was that? 
RUGG: Er, well, er, not that he needs makin' a man of, but, er, sharpen him up a bit like. 
STEVEN: Look, I warn you. 
DODO: Honestly, Steven. If they're not real, how can you lose your temper with them? You can't have it both ways, you know. 
STEVEN: Oh, all right. I'll ignore them. They're just sent here to get my goat. But where do we go from here? We're stuck. 
RUGG: Ha, ha, the Iron Duke wouldn't have been stuck over a little thing like that. 
STEVEN: All right, I'm ignoring him. 
DODO: What would the Iron Duke have done? 
RUGG: Well, 'e'd have had another look at the riddle, I expect. 
DODO: The riddle? Then escape the rhythmic beat, or you'll forever tap your feet. 
WIGGS: No, not that bit, duck. The first bit. 
DODO: Hunt the key to fit the door, that. Steven, that's it. 
STEVEN: Then the game is - 
RUGG: Hunt The Thimble! 
DODO: Only it's a key. And a rather large one at that. 
STEVEN: The only problem is, where do we start looking?

[Toymaker's office]

(The trilogic tally reads 734.) 
TOYMAKER: You've stopped playing, Doctor. You know that isn't allowed. Go from move 770! 
(Once again, the game rearranges itself.)
TOYMAKER: Now play on. 
(The Doctor's body-less hand takes it's own turn.) 
TOYMAKER: You're still not playing fast enough. Go from move 813! Your friends have reached their third game. Hunt the Key!

[Kitchen]

(Cyril is asleep on a chair beside the range.) 
DODO: Steven, haven't we seen him before? 
STEVEN: I don't know. 
DODO: Wasn't he the Jack of Hearts? 
STEVEN: Possibly, but does it matter? I mean all the Toymaker's creations look alike to me. We have to find the Tardis before the Doctor reaches move 1,023, so we haven't got long to find that key. It's hot!
WIGGS: So what'd you expect? You come away from me pots and pans. 
DODO: Look, we've got to find the key to that door. 
WIGGS: Well, he won't find it there. 
DODO: How do you know? 
RUGG: Because Mrs. Wiggs always knows what's best, that's why. 
(Steven picks Cyril up off the chair - this is no mean feat - and checks underneath him for the key. Dodo meanwhile sidles over to Sergeant Rugg.) 
DODO: You'll help us find the key, won't you? 
RUGG: Er, ahem, well, er, I don' know, em 
DODO: You look so marvellous in that uniform. You must be very brave. 
RUGG: Well, er, I try to do my duty, girl. 
DODO: Then you'll help us, for my sake. 
RUGG: Well, er, alright, but for you, mind, not for him. 
DODO: Where do you suggest we start looking? 
RUGG: Ah, well, er, let's see now, er, what about this old dresser here, hey? 
WIGGS: Here! You watch what you're doing with my dresser. 
(Whilst they rummage through drawers, Steven examines the cuckoo clock.) 
WIGGS: What do you think this is? A bloomin' fair ground? Oh! Here, you put them things back in the drawer. 
RUGG: It's all right, Mrs Wiggs. I'm just helping the young lady. Here, er, what's your name, me girl? 
DODO: Dodo. 
RUGG: Dodo. Oh, what a lovely name, Dodo. Oh, I like that. 
WIGGS: Well, you go and like it somewhere else, and take your friend with you. 
RUGG: Oh, come, Mrs Wiggs. The girl's been and gorn and lost her key. 
WIGGS: Well, she won't find it here. 
STEVEN: Take no notice of them, Dodo. They've been sent here by the Toymaker to put us off. This time we're getting warm. 
(Mrs Wiggs returns to her pastry board unaware that Steven is searching under the table.) 
WIGGS: Ahhh! That's me foot! You come out from under there! 
STEVEN: It isn't under the table. 
WIGGS: When you've quite finished. 
STEVEN: Dodo, take a look behind that thing. I'll take a look over here. 
(Dodo climbs onto a chair in order to search behind the top of the dresser.) 
RUGG: 'Ere, now, wait a minute, girl. You don't want to get up there. You'll fall and break your leg. Eh, let me look for you. 
DODO: That's very kind of you. 
RUGG: Oh, not at all, ma'am. Happy to be of - oop - service. 
WIGGS: Sergeant Rugg! What do you think you're doing of up there? 
RUGG: Now don't you worry, Mrs Wiggs. I'll be all right. 
WIGGS: I'm not worried about. It's my best china! (smash) Oooh! Oh! Me best plate! 
RUGG: A little accident, Mrs Wiggs. 
WIGGS: Accident? That was no accident! You dropped that plate deliberate like! 
RUGG: I hope you're not calling me a liar, Mrs Wiggs - oop! 
WIGGS: Oh! Another accident, I suppose! 
DODO: Oh! Oh, perhaps you'd better come down, Sergeant. 
RUGG: Oh don't you worry, miss. It's perfectly all right. 
(More crashing sounds.) 
WIGGS: Oh! Sergeant Rugg! You come down here this instant! 
RUGG: Soldiers don't take orders from civilians, Cook. Now you just pipe down! 
WIGGS: Pipe down? You great oaf. You couldn't fight a pussycat! 
RUGG: You didn't ought to have of said that, Cook. 
(More smashing sounds. The ensuing orgy of destruction wakes Cyril, who takes refuge under the table.) 
WIGGS: Oh! Oh! Oh Sergeant Rugg! Just you wait till I make you sorry for that. If you think I'm going to stand for you throwing my best china about you're very much mistaken! Take that! 
DODO: Oh, please, please stop. This is all my fault. 
(The argument carries on in the background.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, ignore them! This is all being done to prevent us from finding the key. They don't really exist, remember? It's not real. 
WIGGS: What did he say? 
DODO: Are you sure about that? 
STEVEN: Oh, come on. We've got to find that key. That is supposing there is one. We've looked everywhere, haven't we? 
DODO: But I'm afraid it's all my fault/ 
STEVEN: Nonsense! This is another distraction laid on by the Toymaker to stop us finding the key. 
DODO: Oh, where? You said it was just a distraction, and 
STEVEN: They seem to get rougher as they go along, but we've looked everywhere. Do you suppose there really is a key? 
(At opposite ends of the kitchen table, the Sergeant and Mrs Wiggs are using food as missiles.) 
WIGGS: Take that, and that, and that, and that, and that! 
DODO: Oh, look! You've thrown just about all the buns there are to throw. Couldn't you both call a truce? 
WIGGS: A truce? After he broken me best china? 
DODO: Well, I'm sure he'll apologise. 
RUGG: Apologise? 
MRS. WIGGS: Oh! 
DODO: Oh, well, you did break her plates, you know. 
RUGG: Soldiers never apologise. It's a rule. 
DODO: But a gentleman would always apologise to a lady. 
WIGGS: Huh! Soldiers! A gentleman! 
DODO: Sergeant Rugg is, I'm sure of that. 
RUGG: I apologise. 
DODO: There. Now will you accept his apology? 
WIGGS: Oh, all right then. But he has to pay for my china! 
RUGG: Pay for the ch? Now then, you see why soldiers never apologise? Give the old trout an inch.
WIGGS: Old trout, is it??!! Just you wait for that, Sergeant Rugg! Old trout! 
RUGG: Now then, careful with that broom, Mrs. Wiggs Careful. 
(As hostilities resume, Steven catches Cyril trying to sneak off.) 
CYRIL: Argh! Let me go. 
STEVEN: Where do you think you're going? 
CYRIL: N-n-n-n-n-n-nowhere! 
STEVEN: Come on, I think that you know where that key is, don't you? Oh, so we're getting somewhere at last, are we? 
(Cyril locks himself inside the pantry.) 
STEVEN: Hey, you, come back here! 
DODO: I'm sure you'll hurt him with that broom! 
RUGG: Well, if she does, then this pie'll get hurt as well. 
WIGGS: What? Not that pie. Not that pie! Put it down! 
RUGG: Oh? Well then, you put that broom down, Missus. 
STEVEN: What's she so worried about this pie for? Look at the rest of the mess. 
DODO: Steven, that's one place we haven't looked. 
STEVEN: Where? 
DODO: In the pie! 
STEVEN: I see what you mean. 
(In the excitement the pie is smashed at Dodo's feet.) 
DODO: Steven, the key! I've got it! 
STEVEN: Come on, Dodo, be quick! 
DODO: Goodbye! Sorry about your kitchen. 
(They disappear into the next room as the Toymaker appears beside his quarrelling pawns.) 
TOYMAKER: Wretched pair! I give you a chance of life, and this is what you do with it. Look at the kitchen! 
RUGG: My fault, sir, not her's. 
TOYMAKER: Such gallantry from a mere doll. Now listen to me, the pair of you. Clean yourselves up, and get out onto that dance floor. At the far end you will find a Tardis. Steven and Dodo must be prevented from getting to it at all costs. Do you understand? If you fail me, I will break you in pieces like this.
(He smashes the last remaining plate.)

[Ballroom]

(The next room does indeed have a dancing floor, a raised triangular dais on which three ballerina dolls are nearing the end of their dance. The dance ends, the dolls take their bows then relapse stiffly, mere mannequins once more. Beyond the dance floor the familiar police box form is revealed.) 
STEVEN: The Tardis! 
(Steven is about to step onto the floor.) 
DODO: Steven, be careful. This could be as dangerous as those chairs. 
STEVEN: But there's no other way of getting to it. 
DODO: It can't be as simple as that, can it. There must be a catch somewhere. Then escape the rhythmic beat, or you'll forever tap your feet. What does it mean? 
(Steven holds out his hand cautiously over the dance floor and music is heard. He pulls his hand back.) 
DODO: How strange. I can do it, too. 
STEVEN: Yes. The Doctor's game won't wait for us, though. We've got to take the chance. 
(Rugg and Wiggs enter the room, all nice and clean again.) 
DODO: Hello. Ah, you made it up. 
RUGG: Well, Mrs. Wiggs' got much too warm an heart to keep a quarrel going, miss. 
WIGGS: Oh, Sergeant's going to take me to the ball. 
DODO: The ball? 
RUGG: Yeah, right here, girl. No lack of partners, as you can see. Oh they never get tired of dancing, them dolls. 
STEVEN: Well, it seems all right. I'm going to make a dash for it. 
(He steps on the rostrum and immediately the music begins.) 
DODO: Steven, this is no time for a dance. 
STEVEN: I can't help myself! 
(The dolls also begin to dance, advancing towards him in a line.) 
DODO: Steven, this is what the riddle meant!

[Toymaker's office]

(The trilogic game is at move 878.) 
TOYMAKER: You're doing very well, Doctor. Let's hope you haven't made a mistake. Still, we'll find that out when you reach your 1,023 move.) 
(The Doctor's hand moves counter 2 onto counter 5 and then 1 onto 2.) 
TOYMAKER: I see that Steven has taken time off from the quest to go dancing. Oh, keep on playing, Doctor. 
(The Doctor moves the 3 onto the 8, and the tally clicks on to 881.)

[Ballroom]

(Steven is dancing helplessly with one of the dolls.) 
DODO: Get away from it. You must! The riddle warned us it would be forever. 
STEVEN: I can't! It's holding me in a grip like steel! Get away from the floor, Dodo. Go back! 
DODO: But then we can't reach the Tardis! 
STEVEN: I'll try to dance nearer to it! 
RUGG: Not a bad dancer for a civilian. 
WIGGS: Make a lovely partner for you, ducks. 
DODO: Can't you dance down to it, Steven? 
STEVEN: I can't lead! I'm just being carried round and round. 
DODO: Then I'm going to try and reach it. 
STEVEN: What are you doing? Go back. 
DODO: I can't! 
(Dodo is also caught up in the dance.) 
RUGG: Now that we're dancing, what was it the Toymaker wanted us to do? 
WIGGS: Reach that big cupboard up there before them. 
RUGG: Ah, well, what about that doll there, then. 
WIGGS: Ah, that's the game, duck. You dance with her, while I run for the cupboard up there. 
RUGG: Oh, beggin' your pardon, Mrs W, this is man's work. You dance, and I'll run. Well, to be quite frank with you, Mrs W, soldiers don't dance. Well, officers, perhaps. But sergeants, no. Here, why don't you try the floor? 
(She does. The dolls change partners.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, keep close to me. 
DODO: Why? 
STEVEN: Don't ask questions. 
WIGGS: Oh, hurry up, Sergeant, I can't keep it up for long. 
RUGG: Just on my way, Mrs W. 
(But Rugg finds that his feet are not his own.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, come here. 
(Steven grabs Dodo and they dance together. 
WIGGS: I'm surprised at you, Sergeant Rugg. Put that hussy down and get to the cupboard! 
RUGG: I can't! 
STEVEN: He's going, Dodo. We must get nearer the Tardis. 
DODO: He's bound to try and stop us somehow. 
STEVEN: Well, we'll be ready for them. We're almost there. Concentrate now. Here we are! 
(Dancing in each other's arms, Steven and Dodo reach the police box first. The door flies open and they dive inside, the door shutting behind them. The Sergeant and Mrs Wiggs dance on.)

[Cupboard]

STEVEN: Huh, it's another fake. I wonder how many of these things he made? 
DODO: Far too many. I'm beginning to wonder if we'll ever see the real one again. We might be shut in here forever. 
STEVEN: No, of course we'll find it. Come on, don't lose heart now. We've been through too much. How on earth do we get out of this thing? 
DODO: I wonder if we'll ever see the sergeant and the cook again? They were rather funny, you know. 
STEVEN: Look, you still believe in these creations of the Toymaker, don't you? You can't see that they're just phantoms, things created in his mind. 
DODO: If that's so, why do they lose to us? And always through doing something silly and human? 
STEVEN: Oh, I don't know. Maybe they get out of his control. 
DODO: There, that's just what I meant. 
STEVEN: What are you talking about? 
DODO: Look, he can bring them to life, but they have wills and minds of their own. I'll never be able to look at a doll or a playing card again with an easy mind. They really do have a secret life of their own. 
STEVEN: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! We've got to get you out of here and quick! 
DODO: Why? What do you mean? 
STEVEN: This place is beginning to get you. 
DODO: Oh, rubbish! Just because you can't see it. 
STEVEN: We've got to find the next clue. Now there isn't even a telephone here. It must be in here somewhere. 
DODO: Still, can't help wondering what happened to them. 
(Still dancing, Sergeant Rugg and Mrs Wiggs have become as jerky and expressionless as the ballerinas around them.)

[Toymaker's office]

(The invisible Doctor is apparently chuckling.) 
TOYMAKER: You forget that I can see you, even if no one else can. But you laugh too soon. The game is not yet over, either for you or for your two clever friends. They still have a game or two to play yet. But they must not win the next game. 
(The Toymaker throws his dolls into the chest, one by one.) 
TOYMAKER: Clowns! Nursery characters! Playing cards! I was foolish to trust you to play my games for me. You're all too human, too kind. I must find a more deadly character. 
(He takes out the Cyril doll.) 
TOYMAKER: Ah! The most deadly character of them all because he looks so innocent. A fat, jolly school boy. I wonder what your friends will make of him, Doctor? And I see you only have 123 moves to go.

[Cupboard]

DODO: Hey, what do you think that is? 
(A note is attached to the cupboard wall.) 
STEVEN: This could be the next riddle, or the next warning. 
(The wall falls away to reveal another passageway.) 
STEVEN: Not again. 
DODO: Well, there's the way out. 
STEVEN: Let's read this first. Lady Luck will show the way, win the game or here you'll stay. 
DODO: Well, that's shorter than the others were. 
STEVEN: Doesn't mean it's going to be any easier. Come on.

[Passageway]

DODO: I can't see. 
STEVEN: Don't do anything till we know exactly what's happening. 
(Dodo screams. Up ahead, now dressed in school cap and uniform, Cyril is leering horribly at them.) 
CYRIL: Hello, remember me? I'm Cyril, known to my friends as Billy. Had you that time! Scare ya? 
DODO: Yes, it did. 
STEVEN: We've seen you before, haven't we? 
CYRIL: Yeah, that's right. You're Dodo, aren't you? And you're Steven? 
(Steven shakes his hand.) 
STEVEN: I got a shock! 
CYRIL: You should see your face! 
STEVEN: You'll feel my hand in a minute. What have you got there? 
CYRIL: Hey, careful! I'll show you. Look. 
(There's an electrode attached to his wrist.) 
STEVEN: Take the thing off. 
CYRIL: Oh, all right. There. 
STEVEN: Any more of these schoolboy jokes on you? 
CYRIL: I don't know why you're carrying on like this. I'm just trying to be friendly. 
STEVEN: Well, it's charming way to make friends. 
DODO: I'm sure he didn't mean any harm. 
CYRIL: Of course not. Here, have some sweets. 
DODO: Oh, no thanks. 
CYRIL: Oh, go on, do. 
STEVEN: Dodo, go on, take them. We'll be here all day. 
CYRIL: If I eat any more, I shall be sick, I expect. 
(Dodo puts some sweets in her pocket.) 
CYRIL: You know, you're one of my heroes. When I grow up, I want to be just like you. 
STEVEN: When you grow up? 
CYRIL: Yes. 
STEVEN: You look pretty grown up to me already. 
DODO: Steven, look. The Doctor's reached move 902. 
STEVEN: We'll have to hurry. Come one, where's the next game we have to play? 
CYRIL: Yaroo! It's right over here. You won't find it so easy this time, you know, because you see, you'll be playing against me!

Episode Four - The Final Test

it so easy this time, you know, 'cause you see, you'll be playing against me.

[Episode Four - The Final Test] 
From the Lost in Time DVD

[Game room]

(The floor is laid out with raised numbered triangles, leading towards yet another Tardis.) 
CYRIL: Well, here we are. Here's the next game. Tardis Hopscotch. 
STEVEN: What are we supposed to do with it? 
CYRIL: Well, it's very simple, really. You see, each player takes one of these dice, and throws them onto the triangles, and the number that you've thrown will appear up at the end there, on the dice indicator. (a rotating barber's pole) That's to make absolutely certain that no one can cheat. And you move forward the number that you've thrown. The first one to reach triangle fourteen's the winner. Easy, isn't it? 
STEVEN: It's too easy. What's the catch? 
CYRIL: No catch. First one home's the winner. 
STEVEN: That gives us a two to one chance over you. 
CYRIL: Why, so it does. Well, there you are. You just jump from triangle to triangle and the first one home wins. 
STEVEN: Why do we have to jump? 
CYRIL: Well, you can walk if you like, but I shouldn't if I were you. 
STEVEN: Why not? 
CYRIL: Well, you see, all the area between the triangles is electric, and you'll be killed.

[Toymaker's office]

TOYMAKER: I don't think your friends will do so well now, Doctor. Cyril hates to lose, so he makes sure that he never does. Oh, don't stop playing, Doctor. You're so near the end. Soon you'll discover whether or not you've got the sequence right. 
(The Doctor moves counter 1 onto 2, 3 onto 4, and 5 onto 8.) 
TOYMAKER: I think you need help. Go from move 930. 
(The pieces move again. On A are counters 6 and 1, on B are 7 and 2, on C are counters 10, 9, 8, 5, 4 and 3. Now the Doctor takes his next turn. 1 onto 2 again and 3 onto 6.) 
TOYMAKER: At this rate, you'll finish your game long before Steven and Dodo find the Tardis. It will be fun having you here. and your friends will make charming dolls. It may interest you to know that their chairs are ready and waiting for them in the doll's house.

[Game room]

CYRIL: Now, you all know what we have to do. 
BOTH: Yes.
CYRIL: Ladies first, if you don't mind. 
(Dodo climbs onto platform one and throws her die. ) 
DODO: Three. 
STEVEN: Careful, Dodo. 
DODO: One, two, three. 
CYRIL: You next. 
STEVEN: You're just too good to be true, aren't you. Four. One, two, three, four.
(A buzzer sounds.) 
STEVEN: It says go on to number seven. Do I? 
CYRIL: Yes, go on.
STEVEN: One, two. 
CYRIL: Oh, by the way, I should have told you. If you land on a triangle that's already occupied, the first player has to go back to the starting post. 
STEVEN: Now I see why you let us go first. All right, go on, don't keep us in suspense. 
CYRIL: It's all part of the game, old chap. Two. One, two. 
(So, we have Cyril on 3, Dodo on 4 and Steven on 7.) 
DODO: Now it's my turn. I think I'm going to enjoy this game. Three. Oh, I'm sorry, Steven. Do I have to send you back to the start? 
STEVEN: Look, surely we can't send each other back. We're supposed to be playing together. 
CYRIL: If you don't abide by the rules, you can't possibly win the game. 
DODO: He's right, Steven. We must play fair. After all, we are two to one. 
STEVEN: All right. 
(With Dodo now occupying number 7, Steven reluctantly returns to the start.) 
STEVEN: Watch him. 
(When Steven gets to number 1, the buzzer sounds and it's miss a turn.) 
STEVEN: What's that mean? 
CYRIL: He's pretending he doesn't understand the rules. Wizard sense of humour. You go back a turn. My turn now, I think. Ah! A three. One, two, three. I'm still right behind you.

[Toymaker's office]

TOYMAKER: Only seventy two moves to go. Cyril seems to have the game well in hand. Your friends are tiring, Doctor. I don't think they're going to get your Tardis back. 
(The Doctor makes two more moves.)
TOYMAKER: As you are certainly going to lose, I feel I should be kinder to you. You're no longer under the ban of silence. There! I have given you back your voice. Now you're sulking. Or have you forgotten how to speak? 
DOCTOR: Throughout this game you have spent a great deal of trouble in trying to break my concentration. And it's very unlikely that you will succeed now.

[Game room]

(Dodo turns round to be confronted by a gorilla mask. She screams.) 
CYRIL: It's only me, Cyril. 
(Steven comes dashing over.) 
STEVEN: Look, I've told you before about these idiotic jokes. She nearly fell off. 
CYRIL: It's all part of the game, old chap. Now you can go back to the start for cheating. 
DODO: That's not fair, is it? 
CYRIL: Certainly! He moved out of his triangle and it wasn't his turn. And I've landed on your triangle, so you can both go back to the start. 
STEVEN: I've had enough of this. He makes up the rules as he goes along. Come on, Dodo. I'm going to the finish line. I want to see if that's the real Tardis or not. 
(An image of the Toymaker appears in front of him.) 
TOYMAKER: Don't you like my little game? 
STEVEN: No, I don't. 
TOYMAKER: What a pity to give up now, having overcome so many obstacles. 
DODO: We're not giving up. 
TOYMAKER: Are you sure? 
STEVEN: I just want to get to the end of this. 
(He tries to leap to the next triangle, but encounters an invisible wall.) 
STEVEN: It's no good. It's some sort of invisible barrier. 
TOYMAKER: Precisely. A barrier that yields only to those who play the game according to the rules. So perhaps you'll go back to the platform where you started? 
(The Toymaker image disappears.) 
STEVEN: Come on, Dodo. 
CYRIL: (targeting Steven with his catapult) Yah! One up to me. My turn now, I think. Oh! A two. One, two. 
STEVEN: I'm going to see if there's any invisible barrier around his backside. 
DODO: Better not. Who's turn is it? 
STEVEN: Mine. Ah, that's better. Six. One, two (and wobbles on landing) three, four, five, six. Do I get a second turn for a six? 
CYRIL: Eh? Certainly not. 
STEVEN: No, I thought not somehow.

[Toymaker's office]

(The Doctor is concentrating hard. Another ten moves.) 
TOYMAKER: I think they'll abide by the rules now, Doctor. Don't you agree? There's no point in giving you back your power of speech if you're going to just sit there silent and solemn. 
DOCTOR: You seem to say quite enough for both of us. In any case, I'm busy. 
TOYMAKER: Your friends are not doing very well. 
DOCTOR: I think your friend Cyril won't do so well when Steven catches up with him. 
TOYMAKER: Poor Steven. Little does he know. You're playing too slowly, Doctor. Go from move one thousand. (Pyramid on C is almost complete. Counter 4 is on A and counter 5 is on B) 
TOYMAKER: Only twenty three moves to go. And look, your friend Steven has had to miss a turn.

[Game room]

STEVEN: (on 5) Oh, no. Not another miss a turn. 
CYRIL: You can't possibly win now. Why don't you both give up? 
STEVEN: It's up to you now, Dodo. Come on, give it a good shake. 
DODO: Six! 
(Cyril puts a slippery powder around the edge of his number 11.) 
DODO: One. 
STEVEN: Careful.
DODO: Two, three, four, five, six. (She's on 10) Now I only need four to get home. 
CYRIL: And I only needed three and it's my turn now. Too bad, isn't it. Oh, two. One, two. 
(The indicator buzzes.) 
DODO: Steven, look. He has to go back to nine! 
STEVEN: Come on. Look who's trying to cheat now. 
CYRIL: Give a chap a chance to do up his shoelace, will you? One, two, three, four. 
STEVEN: That's better. Now come on, Dodo, you must throw a four. 
(Cyril wails.) 
DODO: Steven, do you think he's really hurt? 
STEVEN: It's another trick. Roll the dice. 
DODO: Look, he's bleeding. He's hurt his foot. We can't just leave him. 
STEVEN: Play! 
DODO: No! I'm going to help him. 
STEVEN: Dodo! 
DODO: Oh, look! You'd better take your sock off. Hey, That's red ink! 
CYRIL: Of course it is. You're so easy to fool, you are. Now you can go back to the start for getting out of your triangle, and miss a turn. That means it's my turn now! 
DODO: Well, of all the spiteful things! 
CYRIL: Teach you to think you can beat me at a game! A five! Hooray, I've won! Yaroo! Hoorah for me! 
(In his eagerness, he goes too fast and slips on the powder he put on number 11. He falls off the triangle into the death trap, vanishing in a flash. When the smoke clears, his charred doll-like remains can be seen on the electrified floor.)
DODO: What happened? 
STEVEN: I don't know. Poor old Cyril. Hey, this triangle's covered in slippery powder. He must have put this here himself and forgotten all about it. He was caught in his own trap. It serves him right. Come on, Dodo. The game's over. 
DODO: No, we've got to play the game to the end. You heard what the Toymaker said. I'm sure I can throw that four. 
STEVEN: All right, well, hurry. Look at that tally. (1,014) The Doctor's almost finished his game. 
DODO: Four! We've won, Steven! (and nearly falls off number 11 herself.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, I told you about the powder. Now, take it easy. We mustn't lose now. Now, go on. I'll follow you over. 
(They both arrive at number 14, the Tardis.) 
DODO: Perhaps it's just another fake.

[Toymaker's office].

(Move 1022, and a now visible Doctor moves level 2 from A to C.) 
DOCTOR: Well, I was right. 
TOYMAKER: Make the last move, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No. Not yet. Excuse me. (switches on the monitor) Yes, I see Steven and Dodo have found the Tardis. One little trick, and your little trick is broken. I am now visible. 
TOYMAKER: You are indeed, Doctor. Well done. The three of you have won your little games. 
DOCTOR: I am glad you take it so calmly. Well now, if you will excuse me, I will go and see if the Tardis is all right.

[Game room]

DODO: Just suppose this isn't the real one. 
STEVEN: Look, it must be! If it wasn't, something would have happened by now. And listen. 
DODO: What? 
STEVEN: It's humming. Only the real Tardis does that. 
DODO: Are you sure the Toymaker couldn't have made one of his a humming one? 
STEVEN: Why didn't he make the others do it? 
DOCTOR: Well done, my boy. 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm back with you. Well done. I'm very glad to hear that you're bringing logic into your guesses. 
DODO: Oh, you're safe. You've won your game. 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear, and I think it was high time that we were off. 
STEVEN: I can't wait to leave this place. I don't want to play another game ever. 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't think that's going to be likely, dear boy. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: I hope I do not interrupt the council of war. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear friend, don't waste our time on trivial formalities. You have been defeated, so now leave us alone. 
DODO: You know you must lose in the end. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: Only I can win. If I lose, the Doctor and I go down together. 
DOCTOR: Now don't start red herrings, you charlatan. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: Go on, young people, go on. Ask your elderly friend if he can win completely. 
STEVEN: Is it true, Doctor? Are we bound to fail? 
DOCTOR: No, my dear boy. He's just tricking us into despair. Take no notice of him. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: Tell them the truth, Doctor. Hide nothing. 
DODO: You must tell us. We ought to know. 
DOCTOR: Well, I am compelled to tell the truth. It is possible that the Toymaker can drag us down in defeat with him, unless 
STEVEN: Unless what? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's all very simple. It's a matter of the battle of our brains. 
DODO: Well, do we have a chance to escape? 
DOCTOR: Yes, we still have a chance, but we must proceed with cunning. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: An impossible task. 
STEVEN: As long as we defeat you, that's all I care. You can't beat us now. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: We shall see. 
DOCTOR: Well said, my boy, well said. 
TOYMAKER [on monitor]: Well said? He doesn't even know what he is saying. These adolescent expressions of loyalty. Before you make puerile promises, remember the past, your little adventures. Remember my power. 
STEVEN: Your power? We won through, didn't we? 
(The Toymaker is there in person.) 
TOYMAKER: Perhaps, but would you dare to play those little games again? 
STEVEN: Not until I've laid hands on you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, it's no use, Steven. Leave him. 
DODO: Are you all right? 
STEVEN: I couldn't touch him. 
DOCTOR: He's using his mind to turn your strength against yourself. Now, go back into the Tardis. I will deal with him. 
(Dodo and Steven leave.) 
TOYMAKER: Doctor, I offer you power. Power to corrupt, to destroy. Think of the exhilaration of that power. Serve me and live. 
DOCTOR: Never! Never, my friend. You have been defeated. 
(The Doctor goes into the Tardis.) 
TOYMAKER: We will see, old man. The game is not yet over. We shall see. 
(The Toymaker sits down next to the trilogic board, and the Doctor comes out of the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: What have you done? Stop meddling with my ship! 
TOYMAKER: It isn't what I have done, but what you have not done. You must finish the game. You cannot leave here until you have. 
DOCTOR: Your infantile behaviour is beyond a joke. No. Of course, I mustn't. You very nearly caught me then. 
TOYMAKER: Make your last move, Doctor. Make your move. 
DOCTOR: But if I do, this place vanishes. 
TOYMAKER: And then you have won completely. 
DOCTOR: And if this place vanishes, then the Tardis and the rest of us, will vanish also. 
TOYMAKER: Correct. That is the price of success. Make your last move, Doctor. Make your last move.

[Tardis]

STEVEN: What can be keeping him? 
DODO: Something the Toymaker has done to the Tardis. The Doctor has to persuade the Toymaker to let us go. 
STEVEN: We won his games, we have the right to go. The Toymaker said that. 
DODO: Now I'm here, I don't mind. I know I'm safe. 
STEVEN: I think I'm going to take. Oh, here he is. 
(The Doctor enters.) 
DOCTOR: Close the doors, my boy. 
STEVEN: So what's happened? 
DOCTOR: It's no use. 
STEVEN: What's he done? 
DOCTOR: If we destroy the Toymaker, we destroy this world. 
STEVEN: Well, is that bad? 
DODO: Surely, that's a good thing. This is really a very sad place. 
DOCTOR: I don't think neither of you understand. As the games are over, and won by us, everything outside the Tardis disappears. And if we are there, we disappear also. 
DODO: But we have won and it hasn't happened yet. 
DOCTOR: But it will, my dear, the moment I go out there and make the final move of the trilogic game. 
STEVEN: Why doesn't he just let us go? He can't want to be destroyed. 
DOCTOR: Oh, he won't be. 
DODO: But if everything disappears, why not him? 
DOCTOR: If the Toymaker loses the game, his world will vanish, but he has the power to build a new one. 
DODO: How? 
DOCTOR: The Toymaker is immortal. He's lasted for thousands of years. Very occasionally, of course, he loses a game, and then he has to pay the price. 
STEVEN: And that price is the loss of his world? 
DOCTOR: Yes, but he himself is not destroyed. He goes on forever. 
STEVEN: So we can't leave. 
DOCTOR: There must be a way. 
(The Doctor turns on the scanner.)

[Game room]

DOCTOR [OC]: Will you leave my ship alone? Do you hear me? Will you leave my ship alone? 
TOYMAKER: Let me have it, Doctor. It will be such an amusing toy. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Let me have the trilogic game in here. 
TOYMAKER: Of course not. Be reasonable, Doctor. If I allow you to make the last move in there, then you can preset your controls and dematerialise at the same moment that my world vanishes. Then you will escape. 
DOCTOR [OC]: It will make no difference to you. You can build a new world. 
TOYMAKER: Of course. And I look forward to that. I'm bored with this one. But I'm a bad loser, Doctor. I always destroy the destroyer.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: I will not come out and make that final move. 
TOYMAKER [on scanner]: Then you must stay there forever. 
STEVEN: Doctor, let me go out and make that move for you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, nonsense, dear boy. You don't want to disappear. 
STEVEN: At least you and Dodo would get away. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, that's very noble and kind of you, but I absolutely forbid it. You've done quite enough in getting the Tardis back. 
STEVEN: All right, but something's got to be done. We can't just stand here and talk our way out of this. 
DOCTOR: We can! That's just it. That's just what we can do. Listen to me. I will make that final move.

[Game room]

TOYMAKER: How sensible of you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR [OC]: Go back to the trilogic game. Are you ready? 
TOYMAKER: Whenever you are, Doctor.

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Very well. (whispers) Preset for dematerialisation. (loud) Go to move 1,023! (nothing, so he imitates the Toymaker's voice) Go from move 1,023! Master switch! 
(The Tardis dematerialises as piece number 1 moves from B to the top of the pyramid on C and the planet explodes.) 
DODO: You did it! You did it! We won! 
STEVEN: Doctor, but how was it done? 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, it was your very idea. Your very idea. Don't you see? When the Toymaker wanted to move the pieces, he had to command them in a certain tone of voice to make them move at all. 
DODO: But you had to do it twice. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but in the first place, you see, I couldn't, because I used my own voice. 
DODO: I don't see. 
STEVEN: I do. The Toymaker wasn't playing. 
DOCTOR: Exactly, dear boy, exactly. Therefore, I had to imitate the Toymaker's voice to make them obey me, and they did. 
DODO: We'll never see him again, will we, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, don't talk too soon. The mind is indestructible. So is the Toymaker. 
STEVEN: What, you mean he can never be destroyed? 
DODO: But you defeated him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, just at this moment, but there will be other meetings in an other time. 
DODO: Then your battle with him will never end. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're quite right, my dear, but anyway, let us cheer up. After all we did win the games. 
DODO: Hey, let's celebrate with these. 
DOCTOR: With what? 
DODO: Here, these. 
DOCTOR: What are those? 
DODO: They're Cyril's sweets. He gave them to me just before the race game. 
STEVEN: Oh, throw them away, Dodo. I only told you to take them so that we wouldn't waste anymore time. 
DODO: Oh, all right. 
DOCTOR: This is really interesting. The last present from the Toymaker. I wonder. 
(The Doctor bites into the hard sweet, and cries out in pain.) 
DODO: Doctor, what's wrong?

[Corral]

BALLAD: So fill up your glasses, 
And join in the song. 
The laws right behind you, 
And it wont take long. 
So come, you coyotes 
And howl at the moon, 
Till theres blood upon the sawdust, 
In The Last Chance Saloon. 
(Three cowboys ride into the small Arizona mining town of Tombstone. Just off Main Street lies the OK Corral, as proclaimed by a large bullet-ridden sign above the entrance. One of the cowboys shoots at it.) 
IKE: Now why for did you do a fool thing like that? Save your bullets for Holliday, boy. 
BILLY: I aint scared of Holliday! 
PHINEAS: Hear that, Ike? Brother Billy aint scared. 
IKE: Nobody says you was scared, boy. Our brother Reuben, now he wasnt scared of him, but that didnt stop Holliday fillin him full of holes! 
PHINEAS: Where do we all meet up with Seth? 
IKE: The Last Chance Saloon. 
BILLY: What for do we need Seth Harper? 
PHINEAS: Pas paying him, and Pa wants us to work along with him. 
IKE: Come on! 
BALLAD: On your way then you cowboys, 
The time will be soon, 
When there's blood upon the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon.

[Livery stable]

(As the three Clanton brothers make their way back towards Main Street, the tall blue shape of a 1960s London police box, 80 years and 5000 miles out of place, materialises at the back of a cluttered livery stable to one side of the corral. The door opens and the Doctor comes out, holding a handkerchief to his mouth.) 
STEVEN: What's the matter Doctor? 
(Steven and Dodo follow him from the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, I've got the most ghastly toothache. It's paralysing pain. 
STEVEN: it serves you right for eating that sweet. Well, aren't there any painkillers on the Tardis? 
DODO: If there's anything I can get you? 
DOCTOR: No, my dear, thank you, no. I shall have to have it out. We've got to find a dentist. 
STEVEN: Where are we? 
(Dodo spots the sign over the gate outside.) 
STEVEN: It must be in the past sometime. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're very observant, dear boy, but where? 
STEVEN: How would I know? 
DODO: I know. 
STEVEN: Where? 
DOCTOR: Well, use your eyes, dear boy. Good heavens. 
(Steven looks out of the stable door.) 
STEVEN: Tombstone! The OK. Well, that sounds like 
DODO: The Wild West! 
STEVEN: It can't be, can it? 
DOCTOR: Why not? Fat chance I've got of finding a dentist in the middle West part of 
DODO: Yee-hoo! 
DOCTOR: Oh please, must you? 
STEVEN: Look, I've always wanted to be a cowboy, see what it was like in the Wild West. 
DODO: Hey, they had cowgirls too, didn't they? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. 
DODO: Ya-hoo! 
DOCTOR: What about my tooth!

[Last Chance Saloon]

BALLAD: It's your last chance of cussing 
At a gunfighter's doom, 
It's your last chance of nothin' 
At the Last Chance Saloon! 
(Seth Harper is waiting at the bar. Played by Shane Rimmer, soon to be the voice of Scott Tracy.) 
HARPER: You took your sweet time gettin' here Clanton. Well, Doc Holliday arrived here before noon! 
IKE: Rode out as soon as ever I got your wire. Anyways, Holliday'll keep for a drink or three, I'd say. 
BILLY: Sure enough will. Barman! A bottle and three more glasses. Fast! 
IKE: You boys know this guy? 
PHINEAS: Yeah, snake-eyes Harper. 
HARPER: I don't like being called snake-eyes. Last fellow called me that got himself an extra hole in the head! 
IKE: Sure, Seth, sure. We're friends, ain't we? Ain't we in this together? 
HARPER: Well I'm in it. You're all together on the outside just lookin' in. 
PHINEAS: Now that ain't so. We're backing you. You make your play and we gun 'im down. Easy as skinnin' summer fries. 
BILLY: Yeah, that's it. 
(The barman looks around anxiously as the four men take their bottle to a table.)

[Livery stable]

(Steven and Dodo reappear from the Tardis, this time dressed for the part. Steven with white stetson and fringed shirt is tripping over his spurs and attempting to twirl a pair of pearl-handled six-guns.) 
DODO: How do we look? 
(Dodo's Mexican ensemble is topped off with a black felt hat.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious. Absolutely absurd. 
DODO: Oh. 
DOCTOR: Why you have to dress yourselves up like Tom Mix I can't imagine. You're asking for trouble. Why can't you wear inconspicuous clothes like I do? 
DODO: Oh, what about me? Don't you like it? 
DOCTOR: Oh, that hat is certainly wrong with it. 
DODO: Oh, it's not supposed to be. That's for you. 
DOCTOR: For me, my dear child? Oh, that's very thoughtful of you, thank you. Yes, at least it'll keep the rain off. Yes, it's most suitable. Ow! 
STEVEN: Buffalo Bill to the lions. 
DOCTOR: What was that? 
STEVEN: Nothin' pardner! I was just a-practising mah quick-draw! 
(Steven attempts a draw, but ends up dropping his gun.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, do be careful, dear boy. And remember that belongs to my favourite collection! 
STEVEN: Now see here, stranger. I reckon you don't know who I is! Deadeye Steve. The fastest, meanest gun in the West. 
DODO: I think you're smashing. 
(Someone shoots the gun out of Steven's hand.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, what on Earth? Are you? And who might you be, sir? 
WYATT: You wanna find out, try movin' fast! Now get over! 
(The shooter is a tall mustachioed man with the silver star of a city Marshal pinned to his breast.) 
DOCTOR: I don't know who you are or what right you have 
WYATT: Marshall of Tombstone's my right and Wyatt Earp's my name. 
DODO: Wyatt Earp! 
WYATT: Oh, something wrong, ma'am? 
DODO: Oh no, it's just that, well, I always wanted to meet you and here we are face to face. 
WYATT: Well, the Lord sure do move in mysterious ways, ma'am. Now maybe you'll all come along to Sheriff's office? 
STEVEN: What on Earth for? 
WYATT: So as that you can identify yourself in decent law abiding manner. 
STEVEN: Ah. No, you see, I'm, er, I'm not really a gunman. I was just 
WYATT: Huh. You did kinda make that look obvious didn't ya, boy? That's why I'm doin' you a favour taking you on in. 
STEVEN: Why? 
WYATT: Cos of the Clantons are in town, and, boy, that's mighty unhealthy for a stranger that calls himself the fastest gun in town. Now pick up yer pea shooter and let's get movin.

[Last Chance Saloon]

BALLAD: Till there's blood on the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon. 
(A buxom young woman enters, catching Billy's appreciative eye.) 
IKE: It just ain't possible, against the four of us? He won't know what hit 'im. Hey, Billy? Billy! 
(The youngest Clanton is leaning casually against the bar whilst the others sit at the table drinking whiskey and playing cards.) 
BILLY: Yeah. Yeah, it'd be a real shame, I'd like for him to know. I'd like him to know us for Reuben's brothers. 
HARPER: Look, you don't know Holliday. You want him to come lookin' for us, and you ain't even seen 'im? You're crazy. 
PHINEAS: Well, where's he at now? 
HARPER: How should I know where he's at? I just know he pulled in here this mornin'. 
PHINEAS: Well, let's get this straight. You mean you don't know where Holliday? You never met Holliday either? 
HARPER: Look, I don't have to meet 'im, I've seen pictures. I've had him described to me. Dapper little fellow with a black buck's back coat, gambler's fancy vest. 
BILLY: So fine, so we'll know him when we find him. So, how do we find him? 
HARPER: We don't have to find him. Ain't you heard o' Holliday's gamblin' n' drinkin'? Now where's the one place in town he's liable to get both? 
IKE: Right here. 
HARPER: Yeah. So we just sit here and wait for him, 'n that's all we gotta do. 
(The woman, having helped herself to liquor, has been listening with interest. She turns to the barman.) 
KATE: Hey, Charlie. 
(Charlie is played by David Graham - Dalek voice and soon to be Virgil Tracy. Right now he's doing his Brains impersonation.) 
KATE: I'll be right back. 
CHARLIE: Why? You going'? 
KATE: I just thought me of an errand I forgot. 
CHARLIE: Well you'd better be right back, if you aim to keep on workin' here. 
KATE: Why, of course, Charlie. 
(Picking up her skirt, she swings through the doors.)

[Main Street]

BALLAD: With rings on their fingers 
And bells on their toes 
The girls come to Tombstone 
In their high silk hose. 
They'll dance on the tables 
Or sing you a tune, 
For whatever's in your wallet 
At the Last Chance Saloon. 
(At the top of the street, the town's new dentist is setting up shop.) 
HOLLIDAY: Now you move that real easy, real easy. That's my operatin' chair. You treat her like she was your Monday bride. Why, Miss Kate, how are you? 
KATE: Doc Holliday, I gotta talk to you. 
HOLLIDAY: Hmm? 
KATE: I thought you'd told me you'd given up gunplay like you'd promised. 
HOLLIDAY: Why so I have Kate, and so I be going to. I got myself a dentist's shop, regular and permanent, here on Main Street and I am movin' in.

[Dentist's office]

KATE: Well you better just move right out again, cos four men are waitin' for you at the Last Chance this very moment. 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah. 
KATE: I'm plum worn out worryin' about you, Doc. All I want is to live peaceful. 
HOLLIDAY: Hey, so do I, Kate. Who are these men anyway? 
KATE: Well, there's a guy called Seth Harper. 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah. 
KATE: Then there's three brothers by the name of, er, Clanton. 
HOLLIDAY: Clanton! You kill a guy out of sheer professional ethics, and then you've got three of his brothers chasin' after you to leave at once. That makes me real angry! 
KATE: You're through with being angry, Doc. All you're gonna do is get outta town. 
HOLLIDAY: Oh, that don't appeal, Kate. That don't come at all natural. 
KATE: But Doc, it ain't safe for you here in Tombstone. 
HOLLIDAY: The day I can't walk down Main Street in any city in the West on account it ain't safe, then I'll be dead. 
KATE: Doc! 
HOLLIDAY: I'll be dead. 
KATE: Doc Holliday!

[Main Street]

HOLLIDAY: Kate Fisher, are you gonna be my lady wife? 
KATE: Of course I am, Doc. 
MASTERSON: Holliday! 
(Holliday wanders down the road to meet the approaching figure.) 
HOLLIDAY: Why, good afternoon, Mister Masterson. Good afternoon, Sheriff. I reckon you must be come to meet the stage crew. 
MASTERSON: Never mind what I'm doing, Holliday. Just you stay out of trouble, that's all. I won't be givin' you no second warnin. 
HOLLIDAY: Why it's like I was sayin' to you, Sheriff. I aim to be a respectable citizen now and you know I always run a clean game. 
MASTERSON: Here on in, you ain't runnin' no game at all. Stay out of saloons, Holliday, and stay away from the poker table. 
HOLLIDAY: Then I bid you good afternoon, Sheriff, and I hope I shall be having the pleasure of attending you shortly in my dental saloon. Are you accompanying me Miss Kathleen? 
(The Sheriff is left standing and scratching his chin. He looks round as Wyatt Earp appears with the Doctor, Steven and Dodo.) 
MASTERSON: So, you finally got back. 
WYATT: Howdy, Bat. Everythin' quiet in town? 
MASTERSON: Everything excepting that rattlesnake friend of yours Holliday blew in this mornin'. Who're your friends, Wyatt? 
WYATT: Well I, er 
DOCTOR: Oh, quite, quite so. Allow me, sir, to introduce Miss Dodo Dupont, wizard of the ivory keys, and er Steven Regret, tenor. And lastly sir, your humble servant Doctor Caligari. 
MASTERSON: Doctor Who? 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite right. I've just been satisfying the Sheriff here that we are a humble troupe of travelling players. Unfortunately, sir, at the moment between engagements. MASTERSON: Well if I was you I'd keep a-travellin'. There ain't no theatre in Tombstone. 
DOCTOR: Oh, is that so? Oh, well, that's no matter, no. You see my prime purpose for visiting your city, sir, was to avail myself the services of a dentist. 
WYATT: A dentist? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
WYATT: Well, then, Doc Holliday's your man. WYATT: Where is the Doc, Bat? 
MASTERSON: Opened his-self a surgery right along the Street. Walk thatta way, friend. You can't miss it. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm vastly obliged to you, Sheriff. Come, fellow thespians! No doubt I shall be very glad to see you, meet you later on, Mister, Mister Werp. 
WYATT: Well, Bat, with the Clantons and Holliday in town you'n me's headed for a load of trouble, boy. 
MASTERSON: I reckon so. 
BALLAD: On your way then, you lawmen, 
The time will be soon, 
When there's blood upon the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon. 
(The Doctor, Steven and Dodo reach Holliday's shop, where a large hardwood molar hangs ostentatiously over the door.) 
STEVEN: Look I don't know why you wanted to say it in the first place. Steven Regret? What kind of a name's that for a singer anyway? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear young man, can't you sing a little? 
STEVEN: Well yes, a little, but why say it at all? 
DOCTOR: Well, I had to find some sort of suitable cover. After all, you can't walk into the middle of a Western town and say that you've come from outer space. Good gracious me, we'd all be arrested on a vagrancy charge. 
STEVEN: And what about our little wizard of the keys? Miss Dupont, can you play? 
DODO: I'll have a bash. 
DOCTOR: There will be no necessity to have a bash, because tomorrow morning we're going to leave Tombstone and we should be back in the Tardis in for lunch. You know, I don't think that that is a very subtle form of advertising, do you? Yes, come to think of it, my dear, you know I think my toothache's better. Yes, I don't think it's going to be at all necessary 
STEVEN: Come on, Doctor. Straight into the surgery. I'll go to the hotel and book the rooms. 
DODO: Please, Doctor. You'll feel so much better afterwards. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I only wish I shared your confidence, my dear. However, I suppose I'll meet you both back in the hotel lounge. Oh! There it goes again. 
STEVEN: The hotel lounge? Where does he think we are? What's so funny? 
DODO: I was just thinking, I hope he's not expecting an injection! 
[Dentist's office]

(Holliday's shop appears deserted, but is at least clean and tidy. Yet the Doctor wanders around the primitive operating chair and eyes the basic equipment in dismay. He's about to leave but winces as his troublesome tooth throbs once more. At the sound of voices from the back room, the time traveller opens the connecting door to find a young woman sitting on the dentist's lap, the two engaged in a passionate embrace and obviously not expecting visitors.) 
KATE: I gotta get me that 
DOCTOR: I, er, forgive me, sir. I, er, I should have knocked. 
HOLLIDAY: What's your business? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, er, the fact is I, er, I, have a toothache. 
KATE: Ha ha! Well, glory be. 
HOLLIDAY: What d'ya know? 
KATE: D'you know you're our very first customer? 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah! 
DOCTOR: Oh, I see. Well, under the circumstances I think perhaps, er, yes, excuse me. 
HOLLIDAY: Now, now, now, now, now, stranger. Just you sit right down in that chair. 
KATE: Right along here, honey. 
DOCTOR: Well, as a matter of fact, my dear sir 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah, and as a matter of fact it don't do to delay dental treatment. Down you go. That's the philosophy of toothache. Now, you go in the back room, Kate. 
KATE: Oh, can't I watch? 
HOLLIDAY: Now you know you can't stand the sight of blood. 
KATE: Oh, okay. But I'll be thinkin' of ya. 
HOLLIDAY: She's a kind of a sensitive girl. Well now, what seems to be your trouble, sir? 
DOCTOR: Well, I think it's at the back here somewhere. 
HOLLIDAY: Let me look. Oh yeah, I see. Well now, if you'll just hold real still, I'll er 
DOCTOR: Oh, just a minute, please. Haven't you any anaesthetic? 
HOLLIDAY: What? 
DOCTOR: Well er, something to sort of dull the pain, man. 
HOLLIDAY: Well I could give you a rap on the cranium with this six shooter. 
DOCTOR: Good gracious, certainly not! 
HOLLIDAY: You're welcome to a slug o' rattlesnake oil! 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear man, I never touch alcohol. 
HOLLIDAY: Well, I do. 
DOCTOR: Well, I must say, this is most unprofessional. I do hope you know what you're doing. 
HOLLIDAY: I never tolerated any complaints yet, in my whole life. Now then, you just open wide. 
(Holliday reaches in to the Doctor's mouth with a large pair of forceps.) 
BALLAD: It's your last chance of boozing, 
Where there's no-one to mind. 
It's your last chance of losing 
And the first place you'll find.

[Last Chance Saloon]

CHARLIE: Sorry it's kinda quiet in here tonight, gentlemen. We, er, do reckon to have a singer only she's just stepped out a while down the 
BILLY: Maybe it's too quiet for you, barman? Like us to liven it up a little for ya? How about a little fancy shootin', huh? 
CHARLIE: I don't want any trouble. 
BILLY: No trouble at all, friend. 
(Billy takes aim at a row of bottles behind the counter, and fires.) 
IKE: You gone clean out of your mind, boy? That ain't no way to behave. Siddown. 
(Steven and Dodo enter.) 
IKE: Oh, we got company. 
PHINEAS: Well, lookie here, if it isn't Calamity Jane and Sam Bass. 
(They head for the bar. There's no sign of the barman. Steven rings a small bell on the counter and Charlie's head pokes up from where he'd been cowering under the counter.) 
CHARLIE: What'll it be, stranger? 
STEVEN: Oh, nothing to drink, thanks. We just want to book three rooms. 
CHARLIE: Three? For the two of you? 
STEVEN: Oh, no, we got a friend joinin' us later. 
CHARLIE: Oh, well, I'll have to ask you to sign the book here. 
STEVEN: Sure. 
CHARLIE: Just your names and occupations. 
(He looks on with interest as Steven writes.) 
CHARLIE: Say, are you really a piano player lady? 
DODO: You're darn tootin' I am. 
CHARLIE: And a singer too. Well, I'll be 
STEVEN: Why, what's the matter? 
CHARLIE: Well nothin' in the wide world, friend. I just might be able to offer you a job is all. I got no pianist on account he was shot last week, and I do have a singer, but she's always out someplace. Understand? 
DODO: I think so. 
STEVEN: Yeah, well, it's very kind of you, but we gotta leave town in the mornin'. 
CHARLIE: Oh. Well, let me know if you change your mind. First floor, three, six and seven. 
STEVEN: Why thanks. Come on Dodo. 
DODO: Ah, but Steven 
STEVEN: It's no good, Dodo. The Doctor would never forgive me if anything happened to you. 
HARPER: You all hear what I heard? 
DODO: Ah well. Hey, what about his key? 
STEVEN: Oh, that's a point, yes. Leave it downstairs for him, okay? 
(The cowboys are suddenly taking an interest. Steven heads upstairs while Dodo returns to the bar.) 
DODO: Give this to our friend the Doctor with my compliments. 
CHARLIE: Sure, ma'am. 
(She follows Steven upstairs.) 
IKE: So Holliday ain't travelling alone this time. 
BILLY: Gimme that book. 
(Billy snatches the visitors book from the bar.) 
CHARLIE: Now see here! 
BILLY: Steven Regret. Now any of you boys ever see a singer carry six guns afore? 
PHINEAS: So Holliday has got hisself a partner! 
IKE: Harper, are you sure Holliday don't know we're lookin' for him? 
HARPER: How could he? I ain't spread it about. 
IKE: I dunno, but when he comes to collect his key I'll sure have me an itchy feelin' in mah back thinkin' of his friend Regret comin' down those stairs behind me. Phin, go up and fetch him down. 
PHINEAS: What'll I say? 
IKE: Anything, only keep it friendly. 
PHINEAS: You're the boss. 
IKE: And Harper, You take a walk down main street and see if you can find Holliday. I'm gettin' tired of just sittin' here waitin'.

[Dentist's office]

HOLLIDAY: My, my, what a fine piece of ivory. You know, I think I'll give that to Kate for a souvenir. 
DOCTOR: I don't care what you do with it, my good man, only get it out of my sight. 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah. 
DOCTOR: What do I owe you? 
HOLLIDAY: Oh, you don't owe me nothing, Mister. You're my first customer. You have this one on the house. Hey, you look here at this little 
(Holliday goes into the back room.) 
DOCTOR: Oh! Good thing I didn't have to have my tonsils out. 
BALLAD: When there's blood upon the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon. 
(From the street outside, Seth Harper peers through the window and sees an elderly but dapper figure in black box-back coat and fancy vest.) 
HARPER: Doc! 
DOCTOR: What? Yes, yes, what is it? 
HARPER: Holliday! 
DOCTOR: Holiday? Yes, I suppose so. Yes, you could call it that. 
HARPER: My name's Harper, Seth Harper. 
DOCTOR: Oh, well, I'm very glad to know you Mister Harper. Yes, I suppose you've brought a message from my friends. 
HARPER: Well, a kind of a message, Doc. The boys are waitin' for you at the saloon. They'd sure like to buy you a drink. 
DOCTOR: Oh, well, that's very sociable of them, but unfortunately I don't touch alcohol. 
HARPER: That's not what I heard, Doc, but we'll play it your way. 
(Holliday and Kate are listening from the back room.) 
HARPER: Look, we'll give you five minutes, and if you ain't there we'll come looking for you, okay? 
(Seth leaves.) 
KATE: Now, Doc. 
HOLLIDAY: Nah, nah, nah, nah. 
DOCTOR: That's a very charming man, that man Mister Harper. Did you hear what he said? 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah, that's just Western hospitality, you know. But if you'll forgive my saying so, you ain't dressed right for a party. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear man, I fail to see that my clothes have 
HOLLIDAY: Ah now, it ain't exactly your clothes. 
DOCTOR: Well, what is it then? 
HOLLIDAY: You ain't wearin' a gun. 
DOCTOR: Well, I should hope not. I certainly disapprove of violence. 
HOLLIDAY: Now you can borrow mine. 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, no, no. 
HOLLIDAY: Now, come along here. You just stand up here. Now you put the holster on him. 
DOCTOR: I insist. 
HOLLIDAY: Now my gun here has my name printed on it, from way down Alabama, where my father was a Colonel in the army. So you can return that to me when you leave Tombstone, which no doubt you will. Now, there you are sir. 
(The Doctor waves the gun about nervously.) 
HOLLIDAY: You put that in the holster. Fetch the gentleman's hat, Kate. 
KATE: Here we are! 
HOLLIDAY: There now, ain't he smart? Ain't 'e though! 
KATE: Swell, cute. 
HOLLIDAY: Let's just come along to your party, you come along to your party. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, thank you. I don't know how I shall ever repay you. 
HOLLIDAY: You'll find a way to repay me. Goodbye, and good luck. 
DOCTOR: What? 
HOLLIDAY: Goodbye and good luck. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, indeed, yes. thank you. And the same to you and many of them. Yes, thank you. Goodbye for the moment. 
HOLLIDAY: It sure seems a pity he bothered to have that tooth out.

[Last Chance Saloon]

HARPER: Okay, Clanton, I found Holliday. He'll be here in about five minutes. 
IKE: Great. 
PHINEAS: Now then, Mister Regret, you and the little lady step right down to the piano and give us a song. 
STEVEN: Ah, yeah, well, the thing is we're kind of a little bit out of practice, y'know. It's 
BILLY: So here's your chance to warm up a little. 
DODO: Hey, couldn't we rehearse on our own first? 
STEVEN: Yeah. 
IKE: How about that. They wanna be alone. You'll sing here, now and fast. 
STEVEN: Well, why? 
(The men draw their guns.) 
IKE: On account of we're all music lovers. 
(There's a bang. Dodo screams.) 
BALLAD: When there's blood upon the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon!

[Main street]

(The Doctor is ambling along, Holliday's gun resting uncomfortably against his hip.)

[Last Chance Saloon]

BILLY: You don't need guns to sing, Mister Regret. I'll hold 'em for you. 
STEVEN: Hey, now come on, what do you 
PHINEAS: Shut up and sing, friend. 
STEVEN: You wait till I see the Doctor. He got us into this. 
IKE: What's the trouble? 
STEVEN: Nothin', we just choosin' a song. 
DODO: Here's one. 
STEVEN: Let's hope the piano knows it. 
DODO: The Ballad of the Last Chance Saloon. 
STEVEN: Play, maestro! 
IKE: Hold it. Boys, watch the door. And when Holliday comes through there, blast him. Okay! 
(Dodo plays the piano and Steven sings.) 
STEVEN: With rings on their fingers 
And bells on their toes 
The girls come to Tombstone 
In their high silk hose. 
They'll dance on the tables 
Or give you a tune, 
For whatever's in your wallet 
At the Last Chance Saloon. 
It's your last chance of givin', 
It's your last chance of rye, 
It's your last chance at livin' 
And your last chance to die. 
It's your last chance of boozing, 
Where there's no one to mind. 
It's your last chance of losing 
And the first place you find. 
Four days ride from the station 
And you're leaving at noon 
And your one consolation 
Is the Last Chance Saloon.

Episode Two - Don't Shoot the Pianist

[Dentist's office]

HOLLIDAY: Well, Katie, my girl, five minutes should see the end of the man the Clantons think is Doc Holliday, and then I can start trading again under another name. What name would you fancy, Kate? Kate? 
(He goes into the back room. Kate has gone but she has left a note.) 
HOLLIDAY: Gone back to the Last Chance Saloon. 
(He pulls a tiny Derringer pistol from his breast pocket.) 
HOLLIDAY: Why must women meddle?

[Last Chance Saloon]

STEVEN: With rings on their fingers and bells on. Look, fellas, please. Come on, please. I've sung this song four times already! 
PHINEAS: Well then, sing it again! 
BILLY: I said sing it! 
STEVEN: Look, couldn't we try a different song? 
PHINEAS: Once more then! 
STEVEN: The same one. Is the Last Chance Saloon. 
It's your last chance of givin', 
It's your last chance of rye. 
It's your last chance of livin', 
KATE: Now what's going on here? Okay now, boys, put them guns away. Now, Charlie, got yerself a new singer maybe? 
CHARLIE: Why, why no, Kate, it's just that these gentleman 
KATE: Now Charlie, am I singin' here or ain't I? 
CHARLIE: Why surely are, Kate. 
KATE: Then, get that guy away from my piana' before we need a new barkeep real sudden. 
CHARLIE: You heard what she said, I reckon you'd better. 
STEVEN: Now go on, Dodo. Get upstairs and lock your door. 
DODO: Oh, but I was enjoying playing. 
KATE: Don't argue, kid. Vamoose. 
DODO: Oh well, if that's the way you feel. Are you coming Steven? 
STEVEN: Yes. 
PHINEAS: Uh-oh. 
KATE: Now hold on. Stay right there, Mister. This time you play piana'. 
STEVEN: Me? But 
KATE: Yeah. Let's take it from the top again, double tempo. 
DODO: Well, thank you and goodnight! 
STEVEN: Dodo! 
DODO: Oh, it's quite all right, Steven. Don't mind me. Just have a good time with your new friends! 
(She storms up to her room.) 
KATE: Well, now, perhaps we can get a little action around here. 
GANG: Yeah. 
KATE: Okay Mister, make with the piana'. 
HARPER: Make with the piana'. 
KATE: So fill up your glasses and join in the song, 
The law's right behind you and it won't take long. 
So come you coyotes and howl at the moon, 
Till there's blood upon the sawdust in the Last Chance Saloon. 
You've a good chance at swingin', 
It's your last chance to hide. 
It's your last chance at singin' 
Till your long last ride. 
It's your last chance of cussing 
At your hard-earned doom, 
It's your last chance of nothing. 
It's the Last Chance Saloon! 
(Distracted by Kate's performance, the cowboys do not notice the Doctor as he enters the saloon from the street and joins in the applause.) 
DOCTOR: Well played, Steven, my boy. Well played. Yes, and you too, my dear. Excellent. I'd really no idea. 
STEVEN: Oh, thank you Doctor. Neither had I. 
HARPER: Well, if it ain't the great Doc! 
DOCTOR: Oh, you flatter me, young man. Yes, reasonably accomplished I would say, but not great. 
HARPER: You can say that again. 
DOCTOR: Oh, really? Why? Oh, yes, of course. We met a little while ago down at the dentist. Yes, and you so very kindly invited me to join you and your friends for a drink! 
HARPER: And a little talk, Doc. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so, quite so. Well, I'm afraid I don't touch alcohol, but a little glass of milk and I should be only too delighted. Won't you, er, introduce me? 
HARPER: Yeah, yeah, give me a pleasure. Doc, I would like you to meet the Clanton brothers. 
DOCTOR: The Clanton brothers. Oh dear. I mean, er, how d'you do? 
IKE: Recognise the name, Doc? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes I do, indeed, yes. Steven, don't you think it's time we were going? 
IKE: Not just yet, Doc. We haven't had our little talk about brother Reuben. The late brother Reuben. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, I know. Yes, sometimes after a bereavement it's very difficult to find exactly the right kind of words. 
IKE: The right words? 
HARPER: Easy. You see, Doc, the boys don't want words. They want action. 
DOCTOR: Oh indeed. Yes, yes, yes. Well, if you take my advice, I would leave it in the hands of the right people. 
IKE: And the right people happen be your friend Wyatt Earp? 
DOCTOR: Er, he's not my friend, no. I would rather call him a casual travelling acquaintance. 
PHINEAS: Well that ain't the way I heard it. 
HARPER: Nor me. 
IKE: Nor me. We heard that you and him were closer than fleas on a porcupine. 
BILLY: Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday. The bottle-puncher lawman and the good-for-nothing drunken gambler. 
IKE: Steady, boy. Let Seth handle this. 
DOCTOR: Wait a moment. I think I can begin to see your mistake. 
HARPER: It's your mistake that we're interested in, Doc. 
DOCTOR: But I am not the Doc. The man you're looking for is the local dentist. Yes! He has a little shop here, along the street. 
HARPER: It seems to me that's where I found you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I can explain that. You see 
HARPER: And your gun's got his brand on it. 
DOCTOR: Er, well, yes, as a matter of fact he lent it to me because er, because er 
IKE: Because what, Doc? 
DOCTOR: Er, well, just until I leave the town, as it were. 
HARPER: You ain't leavin' Doc. 
PHINEAS + IKE: Live, that is. 
DOCTOR: Excuse me, gentlemen, gentlemen, you must have made a horrible mistake. Steven, my boy 
PHINEAS: One word out of your friend Regret here and he gets his. 
KATE: Aw for Pete's sake, Doc, tell 'em you're Holliday! You can take on all four of 'em any time. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm sorry, gentleman, but this is Holliday's young girlfriend, and she's only lying to protect him. Now, as I've already told you about this gun. 
(Seth's revolver is shot from his hand and he clutches his wrist in pain. Nobody is more surprised than the Doctor who was merely waving the gun by way of explanation. But Kate is quick to take advantage of the confusion and produces her own weapon.) 
KATE: Okay, don't try it, fellas. Nice shooting, Doc, but ya should have got him between the eyes. 
DOCTOR: Between the who? 
KATE: The eyes. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear young lady, I, I, I, I 
KATE: Kill the next one that moves. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, quite so, quite so. Very good idea. Excellent. Well, you heard. Steven, get their guns! 
(At the top of the stairs, Doc Holliday, who had quietly entered the building by an upstairs window, is tucking his pistol back into his pocket when Dodo appears behind him.) 
DODO: I thought I heard a shot. 
HOLLIDAY: Quiet! Now you just get right back to your room, missy. 
(None of this is noticed by those in the bar below.) 
DOCTOR: How do we proceed? 
KATE: Line 'em up against the piana'. 
DOCTOR: Yes, excellent idea. Well, gentlemen you will move over in an orderly fashion. You too. 
(Steven aides the Doctor by gesturing with his own gun in the general direction of the piano, before accidentally firing it at the ceiling.) 
STEVEN: Hey! 
IKE: You won't get away with this, Holliday! 
DOCTOR: I keep telling you I'm not Holliday. Well, what do we do now? 
KATE: Well, Doc, I reckon that's up to you now. 
HARPER: You should have killed me when you had the chance, Doc, because you're gonna pay for this. 
DOCTOR: Indeed, indeed, And may I point out that I still have the chance, sir? 
HARPER: Well I don't have no gun. 
DOCTOR: Exactly! That's the whole point isn't it? 
PHINEAS: Am I hearin' right? 
BILLY: If you ain't the lowest, meanest sidewinder 
(Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson enter the saloon.) 
WYATT: Howdy, sinners! Happen you're holding a prayer meeting? Why, I'd be proud to join you. 
DOCTOR: My dear Marshall, I'm so glad to see you. You know, I was trying to explain to them 
MASTERSON: Looks like you was explaining? Hand over yer gun. 
DOCTOR: Well! 
MASTERSON: Wyatt and I handle that kind of explaining around here. Just easy down, everybody. You too, Kate. 
WYATT: Now who did what? 
GANG: Holliday did it! 
HARPER: We was just having ourselves a friendly discussion. 
IKE: Before we could say a word he had us lined up here like a row 
PHINEAS: Yeah, he shot us all down in cold blood. 
STEVEN: Don't you listen to 'em, Marshall. I saw the whole thing, and it was these guys. 
WYATT: Oh sure, sure, boy. Sure, it must of been quite a sight. Now, Doc. 
MASTERSON: Now wait a minute, Wyatt, this guy ain't. Have you gone mad? Doc Holliday's. 
WYATT: Oh, be quiet, Bat. I reckon I can figure clear enough what must have happened. I'm sorry, friend, I'm gonna have to take you in. You're under arrest, pop. 
DOCTOR: Under arrest? And don't you call me pop. You know very well who I am, sir! 
WYATT: I surely do, old friend. 
(Unnoticed, Kate slips quietly upstairs.) 
DOCTOR: I want to see my solicitor. 
WYATT: A what? Huh. A night in the Jailhouse is just about what you need. 
DOCTOR: Oh, very well, but I promise you, you will regret this, sir. 
MASTERSON: All I hope is you know what you're doin', Wyatt. 
WYATT: Oh, I reckon I do. Well, goodnight sinners. I'm sorry your stay in our fair, law abidin' city has been so, er, rudely disturbed. 
PHINEAS: Well, if that don't beat all. 
IKE: That figures. He couldn't take us in until he'd got the Doc out of trouble like always. 
BILLY: Yeah. Hey, what about him? 
(They all turn to face Steven.) 
IKE: Yeah, what about him? 
(Weapons drawn, the cowboys advance. Steven backs away fearfully.)

[Dodo's room]

(Dodo is a prisoner in her own room.) 
DODO: How long are you proposing to keep me here? 
HOLLIDAY: Hardly no time at all, ma'am. Just relax. 
(There is a knock at the door.) 
HOLLIDAY: Oh, Kate. 
KATE: So that's where you're hidin', Doc Holliday. 
DODO: Doc Holliday? 
KATE: What's she doin here? 
HOLLIDAY: Ah, she saw me fire the gun. 
KATE: Yeah, I guessed that was you. That's why I come a lookin'. You shoulda killed the little rat. 
HOLLIDAY: That thought did occur to me, but I reckoned that in the ensuing fracas you might get hurt as well as the old guy. 
KATE: Sure. Real soft-hearted, ain't ya? 
DODO: Look, which old guy are you talking about? 
KATE: Oh, a real nice old guy, lady. He came in to get a tooth fixed. 
DODO: That must have been the Doctor. What happened to him? 
HOLLIDAY: Wyatt Earp's arrested him. 
DODO: Arrested? 
HOLLIDAY: Now why would Wyatt do a thing like that? 
KATE: Because Wyatt let them go on thinkin' the old guy was you, that's why. 
HOLLIDAY: Oh, yeah. 
DODO: I must go to the Doctor. You've got to let me out of here. 
HOLLIDAY: If he's in the hands of Wyatt Earp he could not be safer. Now then ladies, why don't all let's settle down to a nice game of chance? 
(He produces a pack of cards and laughs.)

[Sheriff's office]

(The Doctor is behind bars.) 
MASTERSON: Now, how come you got a hold of Holliday's gun? 
DOCTOR: I have already told you, my dear Sheriff. He lent it to me. 
MASTERSON: And why would Holliday do a fool thing like that? 
WYATT: Because he knew the Clantons was a-laying for him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a most unscrupulous man. 
WYATT: Yeah, I think I'll go find him. 
DOCTOR: Ah, but I insist on coming with you. 
WYATT: Now you'll stay right where you are. Why, you've got four of the meanest characters in the territory believing you're Doc Holliday. 
(The Doctor sits down dejectedly.) 
WYATT: You take one step outside of this jail, friend, and you're a dead man. 
BALLAD: You've a good chance of dyin', 
It's your last chance to hide. 
There won't be no flyin' 
Till your last, long ride.

[Last Chance Saloon]

STEVEN: Now I don't care what Wyatt Earp said. That man's not Doc Holliday. 
HARPER: Well he sure enough shoots like Doc Holliday. 
STEVEN: He never fired that shot. They've got no right to arrest him. He's done nothing wrong. 
BILLY: You planning to get him out of jail? 
(They all laugh out loud.) 
STEVEN: What's so funny about that? I gotta get him out. 
PHINEAS: All you gotta do is gun down Earp and Bat Masterson. You all set to try that? 
STEVEN: No, of course not, but. Well, I know if I can get him out of jail I can prove who he really is. 
IKE: Now wouldn't that be somethin'. Boys, what d'ya say we give Mister Regret here a hand? 
HARPER: Yeah!

[Dodo's room]

Kate and Holliday are playing cards while Dodo sits thoughtfully.) 
BALLAD: There's gamblers from Denver, 
There's guns from the South, 
And many a Cowboy 
With a dry dry mouth. 
There's a ragtime piana' 
And a small back room, 
For to sleep off your troubles 
In the Last Chance Saloon. 
KATE: Okay, Doc, so you cleaned me out again. 
HOLLIDAY: I'm thirsty. Kate, take a look down in the bar. See if we've still got company. 
KATE: Now, Doc. 
HOLLIDAY: Take a look, I say! 
(Kate looks out.) 
HOLLIDAY: I'm sorry to speak sharp, Missy, but I'm gettin' to feel almost as caged up here as you are. 
KATE: They're still there, still drinkin'. 
HOLLIDAY: Oh well, I think maybe I'll take a little walk. 
KATE: Oh now Doc, you promised there'd be no more trouble. 
HOLLIDAY: Now you wouldn't want me to die of thirst, would you? 
KATE: Oh well now, if that's all that's troublin' you. You left a bottle back in your office. Why don't ya just crawl back there and get it? 
HOLLIDAY: Now that's all a man needs. A real gentle, understandin' woman. I'll be back just as soon as you've finished breaking up my character. 
(Holliday leaves.) 
KATE: Ain't it wonderful, honey, what a man'll do for what he truly believes in. (Dodo smiles.)

[Dentist's office]

(Night has fallen. Holliday lets himself into his shop and lights an oil lamp.) 
HOLLIDAY: Now where in thunder did I put that bottle? 
WYATT: Right behind you, Doc. 
(Holliday spins round.) 
HOLLIDAY: Well that ain't friendly, Wyatt. That ain't friendly at all. 
WYATT: Maybe not. I can't say as how I feel particular well disposed towards you right now. 
(Earp reaches into Holliday's breast pocket and fumbles for the Derringer.) 
HOLLIDAY: You're gettin' clumsy. Do you mind if I turn this lamp up a little? Make sure you haven't got a whole posse with you? Well now, what do you want? 
WYATT: Only thing I want from you Doc is to get outta town. 
HOLLIDAY: Now where did I put that whiskey? Why the hell should I get outta town? I ain't done nothing agin' the law. 
WYATT: Not yet, you ain't. But when the Clantons finally wise up, why, there's gonna be shootin', Doc. And, I can't keep that old guy locked up in jail forever, you know. 
HOLLIDAY: Er, that's my dentist's chair. That's dangerous, Wyatt. How long can you keep him then? 
WYATT: Well, I'll release him as soon as I've told 'em the truth about you. Tomorrow morning. Now, you can ride out tonight and get yerself a head-start. 
HOLLIDAY: But I only just hit town. I only just set up this business. 
WYATT: Well, it'll be here when you get back. I mean, don't worry. This is just till this thing blows over. 
HOLLIDAY: Would you mind tellin' me what this is all about? 
WYATT: Yeah. Old Pa Clanton and his boys are running the biggest rustling operation this territory's ever seen. Pretty soon they'll be takin' over the whole of Tombstone unless something's done to stop 'em. 
HOLLIDAY: Well, why don't you stop 'em then? 
WYATT: Well Bat 'n me can't handle it alone. We'll stop 'em soon as my brothers get here. 
HOLLIDAY: Oh, looks like you could use an extra hand. 
WYATT: Well, later maybe. But in the meantime Doc, just ride out. 
HOLLIDAY: Wyatt. Have you been drinking my whiskey? 
(Doc holds up the half empty bottle and Wyatt swaps it for the Derringer.) 
WYATT: Ride out, Doc. 
(Earp leaves, and Holliday stares sadly after him.) 
HOLLIDAY: Else you'll be gunnin' for me come sun-up.

[Last Chance Saloon]:

IKE: So this is the way we'll play it, Regret. You take this gun over to the jailhouse and slip it through the cell window to Holliday. 
BILLY: And he says, 'open the door or I'll shoot.' 
STEVEN: Ah-ha. And where do you guys come in? 
IKE: Well, we wait outside the jailhouse in case anything goes wrong. 
HARPER: Yeah. 
PHINEAS: Yeah, so's we can prevent a mis C C Miscarriage of justice. 
BILLY: To welcome him back to society. 
STEVEN: Oh. Not to gun him down? 
IKE: Why would we do a thing like that? You say he ain't Holliday. Okay, he's got nothin' to fear. What do ya say? 
STEVEN: It sounds like a pretty foolproof idea. 
HARPER: Well, it sure is because you know come mornin' they're gonna ship him outta there. 
IKE: Yeah, up to the County jail. 
STEVEN: And what happens after I give him this? 
PHINEAS: You come back here, and then we take over. 
HARPER: We take over. 
IKE: Yeah. 
STEVEN: Yeah, I got the picture. Okay, I'll see ya in twenty minutes. 
IKE: Okay, right. 
HARPER: There's one born every minute! 
IKE: Hold it boys. I don't think he believed us. Phin', you follow him and make certain him and his friend Holiday don't run away. 
PHINEAS: Okay. 
IKE: And Billy, you get the rope. 
BILLY: Yeah.

[Dodo's room]

(Dodo is helping Kate with her hair.) 
BALLAD: With rings on their fingers 
And bells on their toes, 
The girls come to Tombstone 
In their high silk hose. 
DODO: You really going to marry him? 
KATE: Surely am. Though over how many dead bodies I don't rightly know. 
DODO: But he's an outlaw. 
KATE: Aw honey, I've known them all in my time. Jesse James, Billy the kid, Johnny Ringo. And I'm tellin' you the Doc's the best of the bunch. He's a real gentleman. Just been a mite unlucky, is all. 
DODO: In what way? 
KATE: Oh, was on the run, leastways till he met up with Wyatt Earp. Since then he's usually managed to keep right side of the law. That's why for the first time I guess he's gonna settle down. 
HOLLIDAY: Kate, seems you and I have to leave town before mornin', so go get packed. 
KATE: Oh, but Doc, why? 
HOLLIDAY: Wyatt Earp is gunnin' for me, and you know that in my whole life I never killed a friend. 
KATE: Ah, you're a real gentleman. 
HOLLIDAY: Go get packed. 
KATE: Didn't I tell ya, honey?

[Sheriff's office]

BALLAD: You've a good chance of dying, 
It's your last chance to hide; 
There won't be no flyin' 
'Til your last, long ride. 
(In his cell, the Doctor is finding grim amusement by reading through a selection of wanted posters, with their grainy portraits of assorted outlaws. There's a knocking at the window.) 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh, Steven, my boy. Good gracious. I've been so worried about you. How's Dodo? 
STEVEN: She's fine. She's locked in her hotel room quite safe. Look, I've brought you this. 
DOCTOR: What on Earth for? 
STEVEN: Use it to bluff your way out. The Clanton gang still think that you're Doc Holliday. I'll be waiting for you outside. We must get back to the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but my dear boy, I 
STEVEN: Look, there's not time to argue, Doctor. We've only got ten minutes. Now good luck. 
DOCTOR: But Steven! Oh, confound the boy. 
(The Doctor steps down from the window.) 
DOCTOR: Ten minutes. 
(He twirls the gun in his hand.) 
DOCTOR: Ten minutes. Mister Werp? Oh, er, Mister Werp. I say, can you do that? 
WYATT: Nope. And I wouldn't try it if I were you. 
DOCTOR: I have no intention of trying anything, only people keep giving me guns and do I wish they wouldn't. I wonder, would you mind looking after it for me? 
WYATT: My pleasure. And, er, who gave it to you? 
DOCTOR: Oh er, that young friend of mine, you know, Steven. A rather impetuous sort of lad. He said to meet him outside in ten minutes time. 
WYATT: Oh did he? Well I must go and have a word with him. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes I wish you would. And would you kindly explain to him that I'm quite happy where I am for the moment?

[Last Chance Saloon]

(Ike Clanton is rousing the rabble.) 
IKE: And I say Holliday's the meanest man that's ever polluted the fair name of the West! 
GANG: Yeah! 
IKE: And while he's around there's gonna be nothing but trouble an' bloodshed! 
GANG: Yeah! 
IKE: And the law, the law says maybe he'll do a spell in jail. Well, are we going to let Wyatt Earp get away with that? 
GANG: No! 
IKE: Then I say let's go over to the jailhouse, get him out and string him up from the nearest tree! 
GANG: Yeah! 
(Steven returns to the bar with Phineas.) 
IKE: Did he do what we said, Phin? 
PHINEAS: Yeah. Mister Regret didn't seem too keen on seein' us again. Caught him goin' away from the Saloon. 
IKE: That was mighty unwise of you, Mister. Okay boys, rope him! 
STEVEN: Come on, now, what's the idea? 
IKE: Our idea is, friend, that if Holliday don't bust out of jail we got us a hostage. He's gotta get out to stop you swingin' in his place. Come on. Let's go! (The Clantons drag Steven into the street. Seth Harper remains behind, swigging cheerfully from the neck of a bottle.)

[Dodo's room]

(Kate has changed, and returns with a bag.) 
KATE: Okay Doc, I'm ready. Let's get going. 
DODO: What about me? 
HOLLIDAY: Don't you worry, honey, I'll be returning you to your friends in the jailhouse before we leave. 
KATE: Hey Doc, take a look out here. 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah? 
(Holliday and Dodo join Kate at the window. Dodo's appalled as Steven goes by, tied up and strapped to the saddle of a horse.) 
DODO: They've got Steven! 
(Holliday is more concerned that his shop appears to have been ransacked.) 
HOLLIDAY: They got my operating chair! Wait here! 
KATE: Hey, Doc, come back here!

[Last Chance Saloon]

(Seth is still drinking at the bar.) 
KATE: Doc, you can't do nothin' now. Doc! 
HARPER: Just hold on there, friend. 
(He moves forward to confront the figure coming down the stairs.) 
HARPER: Hey, are you Doc Holliday? 
HOLLIDAY: That is my name. 
(Harper draws but Holliday is quicker. There's a gunshot and Kate screams. Seth falls at the feet of Charlie the barman.) 
KATE: Now you've done it. 
HOLLIDAY: And aim to continue. 
CHARLIE: If you're Doc Holliday, I wouldn't go out there. The whole town's out to lynch you. 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah, I reckon he's right. Er, we'd better get outta town. You saddle a couple of horses, Kate. No, make it three. 
DODO: Three? 
HOLLIDAY: You'll have to come with us, Missy. 
DODO: But what about my friends? 
HOLLIDAY: They're safe with Wyatt. I can't take on the whole town on my own. 
DODO: But you promised to take me back to them. 
HOLLIDAY: Our only hope is to get outta here alive. Now will you get on! 
DODO: Ow!

[Sheriff's office]

(From the door, Sheriff Masterson watches the ugly scene developing in the street outside.) 
MASTERSON: Better come over here Wyatt. When was you gonna break outta jail? 
DOCTOR: About now, Marshall. 
(The Doctor lets himself out of his cell.) 
WYATT: Well, lookie here, friend. Somebody's fixin' up a reception for ya. 
DOCTOR: What? 
(He joins Earp and Masterson at the door.) 
DOCTOR: Good gracious! And Steven's with them! 
PHINEAS: String 'im up! 
(The horses pull to a halt under a tree, and Steven is dragged from the saddle. Wyatt looks bullish as Ike Clanton steps to the front of the crowd.) 
IKE: Holliday, you still in there? 
WYATT: Get out of the street, Clanton. Holliday's my prisoner. 
IKE: Well that's too bad, 'cause if he's ain't out of there in two minutes his friend Regret here is gonna swing in his place. 
GANG: Yeah! 
BALLAD: You've a good chance of swingin', 
It's your last chance to hide. 
And your last chance at singin' 
Till your last long ride.

Episode Three - Johnny Ringo

[Sheriff's office]

IKE: Holliday, you still in there? 
WYATT: Send your men home, Clanton. Holliday's my prisoner. 
IKE: Only as long as he wants to be, I reckon. What do you say, Doc? You gonna let your partner die for something you done? 
STEVEN: Look, stay where you are, Doctor. They're bluffing. 
PHINEAS: If you believe that, boy, you're gonna be powerful surprised in a few minutes! 
DOCTOR: I really think I must go out there. 
WYATT: Appreciate yer feelings, Doc, but I can't let ya. 
DOCTOR: But I might be able to convince them that I'm not Doc Holliday! I can't just sit here and allow them to hang Steven! 
WYATT: Keep 'em talkin' Bat. I'm gonna try and work round behind 'em. 
MASTERSON: Right. 
DOCTOR: But what can I do? 
WYATT: You can stay out of sight. Lay 'im out, Bat, if he tries anythin'. 
DOCTOR: Oh, this is insufferable. 
MASTERSON: Hey, you heard what Wyatt said. Now just shut up and be quiet. 
DOCTOR: Very well, under protest. 
(Wyatt Earp exits by the back door) 
IKE: Time's about up, Holliday. You comin' out? 
MASTERSON: You're asking for it, Clanton. Time's about run out for you too, I reckon. 
BILLY: Don't look that way to me. Not from where I'm standing. 
MASTERSON: Where you're standing, boy, is right in line of fire of my shotgun. I'd keep real quite if'n I was you. 
BILLY: Why, you 
MASTERSON: Go on, draw, Billy. I'd like that fine. 
IKE: Hold it, Billy. Play it like we planned. Holliday! Ain't you even going to come out and tell your old friend goodbye? 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear, dear. What on Earth is Mister Werp doing? He's leaving things too late! 
MASTERSON: Never been known to do that, Mister. 
DOCTOR: He's no right to take chances with Steven's life! Those men mean what they say. 
MASTERSON: If they didn't do you think Wyatt'd be risking his neck out there? 
DOCTOR: He's not risking his neck. Now I really must go out there. 
MASTERSON: Yeah, well, I know how you feel friend, but if you don' quit hoppin' about like a jackrabbit I'm gonna have to lay you out so cold you'll freeze! 
DOCTOR: Oh, poo.

[Main Street]

IKE: Okay, men. String him up. 
(Wyatt creeps up slowly behind Phineas.) 
PHINEAS: Reckon if you was going to have a chance I suggest you choose your friends better in future. 
(Thud. Phineas is laid out cold with a single blow from the handle of the Marshall's revolver. The crowd is caught between the Marshall on one side and the Sheriff on the other. 
MASTERSON: First one that moves gets it. You gonna be first, Billy? 
(Earp removes the noose from Steven's neck. 
BILLY: You're wearing a badge, Marshall. If'n you weren't

[Sheriff's office]

MASTERSON: Yeah, and if you didn't happen to be caught in the crossfire, Billy. 
IKE: You 'ave all gotta get outta there sometime, And when you do 
MASTERSON: Go on home! Necktie party's over!

[Main Street]

WYATT: Go on, get off the street all of ya! 
(Wyatt covers Ike with his gun.) 
WYATT: All's have to do is talk big and look foolish, Clanton, now get off the street. 
BILLY: Not without Phin. 
WYATT: He ain't available right now. 
BILLY: Meanin'? 
WYATT: He's under arrest. 
BILLY: You've got no right, Marshall! 
WYATT: Attempted hangin'? I'd say I'd every right. 
(A dishevelled figure approaches from the saloon.) 
CHARLIE: Mister Clanton! Mister Clanton! 
WYATT: Stay outta this, Charlie. 
CHARLIE: Mister Clanton, that ain't Doc Holliday that's being held in there. 
WYATT: I said stay outta this, Charlie. 
CHARLIE: It's like the old guy kept tryin' to tell ya. I'm sorry, Mister Earp, but I figure'd to save you all a deal a trouble. 
IKE: What makes you think it ain't him? 
CHARLIE: Well on account of Doc Holliday just bein' in the bar. 
BILLY: What? You're drunk! 
(Wyatt looks at Steven.) 
WYATT: Boy, that's all we needed. 
CHARLIE: If'n I'm drunk, your friend Seth Harper's still alive. Which he ain't. 
IKE: What's that you say? 
CHARLIE: Holliday shot 'im clean as a whistle. Fastest thing I ever saw. 
BILLY: If'n you're lyin', Charlie, so help me God. 
CHARLIE: Why should I lie, Mister Clanton? I just want to stop you boys gettin' up against the law over nothin'. 
BILLY: You knew that old guy in there weren't Holliday! 
IKE: This just about does it, Earp. 
WYATT: Try callin' me Marshall, and rememberin' it too. 
IKE: Well, Marshall, you got an answer? 
WYATT: I don't need to answer to you, I'll answer to the committee if need be. Now get back to the ranch while you can still ride. 
BILLY: I don't take no orders from you. 
IKE: Leave it, Billy. Earp won't be givin' any orders when Pa gets through with him. He'll lose that star so fast it'll burn a hole in his coat. Come on, Billy. 
BILLY: We'll be seein' ya, Earp. 
(Wyatt doffs his hat to the departing Clantons.) 
WYATT: My pleasure. 
(He turns back to Steven.) 
WYATT: Boy, you maybe don't realise just how close that was. Well, for what we did not receive, may the good Lord make us truly thankful. 
STEVEN: Amen. 
WYATT: And now, friends, (indicating Phineas Clanton) shall we take this sinner to the abode of the unrighteous? 
MASTERSON: Amen. 
BALLAD: So pick him up gentle 
And carry him slow, 
He's gone kind of mental 
Under Earp's heavy blow.

[Sheriff's office]

(A short while later, Phineas is safely in the cell.) 
WYATT: Well I reckon he'll live but he ain't gonna enjoy it for a while. 
DOCTOR: Was it necessary for Mister Werp to hit him so hard? 
STEVEN: Now then, Doctor, it wasn't your neck in the noose just now. I for one am very grateful to Mister Werp, Earp. 
WYATT: Oh, my pleasure, boy. 
DOCTOR: We shan't be here to see the outcome. Tomorrow we're leaving. Goodbye Mister Werp. 
WYATT: Oh, er, goodbye Doc. Can't say I'm sorry.

[Last Chance Saloon]

(Pa Clanton, a small figure with a trilby and a moustache, has arrived in town and joins Ike and Billy.) 
PA: Get me Johnny Ringo. Get 'im, quick. 
BILLY: But Pa, Ringo rides alone, you know that. He mightn't wanna join up with us. 
PA: What was I paying Harper? 
IKE: A hundred dollars. 
PA: Well, offer Ringo five hundred. 
IKE: Oh, come on, Pa. Nobody's worth that. 
PA: Not worth it? If I had the sons who could do the job without gettin' all fouled up I wouldn't have to pay 'im. But as of now I need a top gun. 
IKE: Listen, Pa, when the citizen's committee hear what we've got on Earp, they will 
PA: The citizen's committee. Pack of feeble minded old women. Think they're gonna run him out office on account of what you tell 'em? Come on. 
(The Clantons down their drinks and make for the door.) 
BILLY: We'll get Holliday, Pa. All we need is time. 
PA: All you need is guts, boy. And all I need is Johnny Ringo, so find out where he's at and get 'im on out up to the ranch. 
IKE: Okay, Pa. 
(As soon as they've gone, the Doctor and Steven enter the bar on their way back to their rooms for the night.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, Dodo. Well, my boy, presumably she spent the evening in her room. 
CHARLIE: Oh, pardon me, but, er, are you alludin' to your friend Miss Dodo Dupont? 
DOCTOR: Of course, of course. 
CHARLIE: Well I'm sorry folks, but she ain't in her room no more. 
DOCTOR: Why, whatever for? 
CHARLIE: Well, on account she checked out a while back. 
STEVEN: Checked out, but 
CHARLIE: She lit out after the killin' with Doc Holliday. Was with him when he shot Seth Harper right where you're standin'. 
STEVEN: What, she was with Holliday? 
CHARLIE: Surely was. Him, her 'n Kate lit out together, friendly as you please. 
STEVEN: Look, surely she left a message of some sort? 
CHARLIE: Now Mister, if'n you're involved in a killin', you don't leave no messages. You git. 
STEVEN: Well, we've got to find her, fast. 
CHARLIE: Well, friend, you wanna find her, you find Doc Holliday. 
DOCTOR: Now don't be ridiculous. Doc Holliday's a great friend of mine. He gave me a gun, he extracted my tooth. Good gracious me, what more do you want? Come along, boy. Come along, come along. 
STEVEN: Doctor, he's a gunman. 
CHARLIE: His next extraction's gonna be a bullet. 
BALLAD: It's your last chance of boozing 
Where there's no-one to mind, 
It's your last chance of losing 
And the first place you find.

[outside the Wagon Hotel]  

(Holliday and the girls have reached a rooming house a few miles away.) 
HOLLIDAY: I reckon this'll do us for the night, Kate. There's a bar right across the street 'n a gamblin' saloon real close. 
KATE: Doc, we're ain't enough out of Tombstone. We could have ridden thirty, forty miles by mornin'. 
HOLLIDAY: There ain't no sense in riding too far when we may have to go back again real soon. Come on, Kate. 
KATE: Ah, but Doc. 
HOLLIDAY: Come on with you!

[Wagon Hotel]

(They make their way to two rooms on the first floor.) 
KATE: Back to Tombstone, Doc? You wanna get yourself killed, is that it? 
HOLLIDAY: All I want is to get myself a drink. Look, I promised Wyatt I'd stay close. 
KATE: Yeah, and Wyatt just got through drivin' ya out, remember? 
HOLLIDAY: Hey, he'll be wantin' me back again soon as the real trouble starts. 
KATE: Real trouble? 
HOLLIDAY: Now look, Kate, there's only him and Masterson to handle things if old man Clanton decides to throw anything against 'em, and I gotta get back. 
DODO: I've got to get back too, remember. 
HOLLIDAY: Sure, I promised the little lady that I'd see her back home with her friends. Now, Kate, you know that a gentleman has to take account of these things. Right now I'm going to rustle up some food for us all. 
(Kate follows Doc from their room and meets Dodo on the landing.) 
KATE: Huh, him and his promises. 
DODO: Nice to find someone who keeps their word. 
KATE: It's all he ever kept in his life, honey. Lost everythin' else he ever had. 
(Five shots ring out.) 
KATE: Not again! 
(Doc returns carrying a tray.) 
HOLLIDAY: It's all right, ladies, it's all right. I just ran into an old friend and he er, he kinda lost his appetite.

[Last Chance Saloon]

(Charlie is tidying up the bar in the lamp-lit saloon. Outside, a black-clad figure approaches.)
BALLAD: It's your last chance of earning 
Your gunfighters fee. 
The pay is in dollars, 
But the bullets are free. 
It's your last chance of cussing 
At a gunfighters doom. 
It's your last chance of nothin' 
It's the Last Chance Saloon. 
CHARLIE: Sorry, stranger, the bar is closed. 
RINGO: Is that so? 
(The newcomer's face is illuminated as he leans over the counter to light his cigar from an oil lamp.) 
RINGO: You can just open it up again. 
CHARLIE: Now see here. Ringo. Johnny Ringo. 
RINGO: Shut up. Gimme a drink. 
CHARLIE: Yes, sir, Mister Ringo. What'll it be, sir? 
RINGO: Double straight. Hey, how come you know my name? 
CHARLIE: I guess everybody. I mean, I sure enough heard about you. 
RINGO: What have you heard? 
CHARLIE: Well. Nothin' sir. Nothin' at all. 
RINGO: So what's your name? 
CHARLIE: Charlie, sir. 
RINGO: Charlie, eh? So you've heard nothing about me? 
CHARLIE: No, no, I ain't. 
RINGO: Ain't very flattering is it? 
CHARLIE: I guess not. I mean, well, what I was meaning was 
RINGO: Yeah. Go on, go on Charlie. 
CHARLIE: I heard somethin' about you this evenin' as a matter o' fact. A couple o' boys was askin' after you. 
RINGO: Who? 
CHARLIE: Two of the Clantons. Ike and Billy it was. 
RINGO: And what was they askin'? 
CHARLIE: Well they said to try and git word to you as their Pa would pay you five hundred if you'll throw in wi' them agin' Wyatt Earp. 
RINGO: I've got business of my own to settle first. Personal business with Doc Holliday. 
CHARLIE: Why now, Mister Ringo, excuse me and it ain't strictly none of my business, but I reckon that'll suit them just fine. Cause they're a-laying for Holliday too! 
RINGO: Is that so. Then here's something else you can tell 'em. Holliday is mine. I trailed him clear away from Fort Griffin, understand? 
CHARLIE: Yeah, sure, Mister Ringo. 
(Charlie picks up the whiskey bottle with a trembling hand.) 
RINGO: Oh, give it here. I'll do the pouring. You sure got the shakes real bad. 
CHARLIE: It's er, it's on the house, sir. 
RINGO: I never figured different. 
CHARLIE: I can't wait to see Wyatt Earp's face when he hears you're going against him. 
RINGO: Plannin' on tellin' him? 
CHARLIE: Why no, Mister Ringo. I was only sayin' 
RINGO: Charlie, Charlie, Charlie. You say too much, uh? 
(Ringo makes for the stairs then turns back.) CHARLIE: I won't say nothin' to nobody. 
RINGO: Now ain't that just the truth. Hey, Charlie? 
(Ringo shoots. Charlie collapses over the bar counter and the bottle of liquor spills to the floor. Ringo blows the smoke from the muzzle of his gun.) 
RINGO: Goodnight, Charlie. 
BALLAD: So it's curtains for Charlie, 
That barman of fame. 
He met Johnny Ringo 
And he knew Johnny's name. 
He knew Johnny's name 
And he spoke it out loud. 
Now Charlie the barman 
Has gotten a shroud.

[Wagon Hotel]

(Early next morning, Doc Holliday is alone in his room and in buoyant mood. Dodo enters.) 
DODO: You ready to leave? 
HOLLIDAY: I'm ready to jump like a mountain hare, you come bursting in here like that, Missy. 
DODO: You said that you were taking me back to my friends today. 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah, today. Or the day after. 
DODO: You promised! 
HOLLIDAY: I promised to take you back safe home and I will do so in my own good time. 
(Dodo grabs a gun from the dressing table and aims it unsteadily.) 
DODO: We're leaving now. 
HOLLIDAY: What're you attempting to do with that there offensive weapon? 
DODO: Shoot you if I have to. 
(She cocks the gun.) 
HOLLIDAY: Now how'd you reckon to get back to Tombstone without me? 
DODO: I shall try not to kill you. I shall aim for your arm. 
HOLLIDAY: That's real thoughtful. Just at the moment you're aiming right between my eyes. 
DODO: Oh, I'm sorry. Is that better? 
HOLLIDAY: It's an improvement. 
DODO: Right, now take me back to Tombstone. 
HOLLIDAY: Well, seems like I ain't got no alternative. 
DODO: No, Doctor Holliday, I don't believe you have. 
HOLLIDAY: Then I promise on my oath as a gentleman of Georgia that I will take you back to Tombstone by nightfall. 
DODO: Oh, thank goodness for that. 
(Doc takes the gun.) 
DODO: Would you mind getting me a glass of water? 
HOLLIDAY: Yeah, sure. 
DODO: I feel rather faint. 
KATE: Now what in Hades goes on here? 
HOLLIDAY: The young lady and I have to go right back to Tombstone right away. 
KATE: Oh, and what about me? 
HOLLIDAY: You stay here and I'll come back and get you. 
KATE: See here, Doc Holliday, you ain't plannin' on runnin' out? 
HOLLIDAY: Now Kate, for the first time in my life I have just been taken, beaten to the draw. 
DODO: Oh, I honestly didn't want to have to shoot you. 
HOLLIDAY: And I didn't want to have to shoot you neither. 
(He produces the Derringer. Dodo faints.)

[Last Chance Saloon]

BALLAD: He knew Johnny's name 
And he spoke it out loud. 
Now Charlie the barman 
Has gotten a shroud. 
DOCTOR: Well, as soon as we've had breakfast, my boy, I must check up with Mister Werp and ask him if he knows where they've all gone. 
STEVEN: Hmm, right. 
(The Doctor and Steven come down from their rooms. With a start, Steven notices the body sprawled across the bar top.) 
STEVEN: Doctor, look! 
RINGO: High livin' and hard liquor. It don't pay. 
STEVEN: Yeah, but he's been shot. 
RINGO: Is that so? 
(The black-clad cowboy tosses a coin onto the counter.) 
RINGO: Here's something towards your funeral, friend. 
DOCTOR: Er, yes, er, excuse me, sir, but I think under the circumstances you'd better remain here until Mister Werp arrives. 
RINGO: Are you aimin' to make me? 
DOCTOR: Ah no, no. 
RINGO: The only man in the territory low enough to kill an unarmed barman is Doc Holliday. 
STEVEN: Hey wait a minute. You know Holliday? 
RINGO: And what's that to you? 
DOCTOR: Well, we must find him. 
RINGO: Why is that? 
DOCTOR: You see, a young lady of our acquaintance is with him. 
RINGO: And what are you going to do when you find him? 
STEVEN: I, er, well we'll take her away from 'im and bring her back here of course. 
RINGO: Plannin' on gunnin' him down, eh? 
DOCTOR: Oh certainly not, sir, certainly not. I mean, we're just going to er, well, er, reason with him. 
RINGO: Now that I'd really like to see. 
DOCTOR: Do you know who that is? 
STEVEN: Who? 
DOCTOR: That's Johnny Ringo. 
STEVEN: Who, that? 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
RINGO: Say, boy. 
STEVEN: Yeah? 
RINGO: Seein' as you 'n me's got common cause gettin' Doc Holliday, supposin' I was to let you ride with me? 
STEVEN: Well, you know where he is? 
RINGO: Reckon I do. 
DOCTOR: Well, we'd be mighty grateful. 
RINGO: I'm sure you would, Pop. There's just one thing. If you get between me and him, boy, don't go looking to me to hold my fire. I'd blast you down as soon as spit at ya! 
STEVEN: Thanks. 
DOCTOR: Disgusting habit.

[Sheriff's office]

(Masterson and Earp have been joined by Wyatt's brother, Warren.) 
WYATT: So brother Morgan can't make it, uh? 
WARREN: T'ain't for me to tell ya. Got himself mixed up in a range war, Abalone way. 
MASTERSON: Any word from Virgil? 
WYATT: No. Could be anywhere between here and Montana. 
WARREN: One way and another seems lucky you've got me around, and Morgan's been teachin' me how ta handle a gun. 
WYATT: Oh, not at your age, my lad, and not against these dirty Clantons. 
(In the cell, Phineas is nursing a sore head.) 
PHINEAS: How long're you all figurin' on keepin' me here? 
MASTERSON: Just as long as it takes till the Judge hits town. 
PHINEAS: Well when the Judge hears about you protectin' Doc Holliday just you see what happens! 
(The door opens and the Doctor enters.) 
DOCTOR: Did I hear the name Doc Holliday mentioned? 
PHINEAS: Ya sure did. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well I've got news of him. 
WYATT: Well I thought you'd left town. 
DOCTOR: Oh, Dodo you see. I mean, er, Miss Dupont has gone off with him, and young Steven is following up and I've got to wait. 
WYATT: You mean Regret has gone after Holliday alone? 
DOCTOR: No, no, my dear Marshall, no. He's gone with a young man by the name of Ringo. 
WYATT: Ringo? 
MASTERSON: Ringo! 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. You've got a photograph of him here, look. 
WYATT: That's all we needed. Boy, the hosts of Midian are sure on the prowl tonight. 
DOCTOR: Why, is he a friend of the Clanton's? 
MASTERSON: Ringo is a friend of nobody. Professional gunfighter, sells hisself to the highest bidder. 
WYATT: Yeah, and I reckon I know who that'll be. 
PHINEAS: Better let me outta here while there's still time, Earp. 
WYATT: Oh shut up. 
DOCTOR: Yes. There's one more thing. I have to report a murder. 
WYATT: Yeah? 
DOCTOR: Yes, the barman at the Last Chance. I believe his name is Charlie, isn't it? 
WYATT: Charlie? 
MASTERSON: Who in thunder'd wanna kill Charlie? 
WYATT: Ho, that Ringo sure works fast. Well, Warren my lad, guess I'm gonna have to leave you in charge after all, huh? C'mon Bat, lets get out to that Last Chance Saloon. 
DOCTOR: Are you going to be all right? (Warren smiles then looks through the bars at Phineas, and chuckles.)

[Richmond Main Street]

(It's nighttime once more by the time Johnny Ringo and Steven reach the next town. They tie up their horses outside a small hotel.) 
STEVEN: Look, what makes you think we're gonna find him in this town? 
RINGO: On account it's the only one since Tombstone. Doc'll be thirsty. 
STEVEN: Well, how're we gonna find 'im? 
RINGO: Well I'll take this side, you take the other. 
STEVEN: Yeah. 
RINGO: Try at the saloon, huh? 
STEVEN: Hey, wait! How'm I gonna know 'im? 
RINGO: You'll know 'im, boy. You'll know 'im. 
STEVEN: Yeah, right. I'll er, see you back here. 
RINGO: Yep. 
(Steven heads off and Ringo turns towards the rooming house. He's about to enter but stops when he spots someone walking slowly down the street towards him. He steps back into the shadows.) 
BALLAD: Johnny Ringo has found her. 
Johnny Ringo's found Kate. 
The gunslinger's got her, 
Now what is her fate? 
Johnny Ringo has seen her, 
She's coming his way. 
Johnny Ringo and Katie 
Were lovers, they say. 
RINGO: Good evening, Kate. Well, ain't you glad to see me. 
KATE: Johnny! 
RINGO: Well ain't you? 
KATE: Well, just kinda surprised, that's all. 
RINGO: Yeah, I'll bet. I heard you was gonna be hitched to Doc Holliday so I just came to congratulate you, you and the bridegroom both. 
KATE: Oh, he ain't no bridegroom o'mine, Johnny. 
RINGO: That ain't what I heard. 
KATE: Oh, but it's true. He ran out on me soon as we left Tombstone. 
RINGO: Now why would he do a fool thing like that, pretty girl like you, huh? 
KATE: Oh I, er, I guess he found him a prettier one, Johnny. 
RINGO: Regret's girl? 
KATE: Yeah. 
RINGO: So where's he takin' her? 
KATE: They was headed for New Mexico. 
RINGO: New Mexico. 
KATE: Now, Johnny, would I lie to you? 
RINGO: Well, I guess he'll just have to wait 'til I finish this job in Tombstone. 
KATE: What job? 
RINGO: You'll find out when we get there. 
KATE: When we get there? 
RINGO: Kate, I've followed you for nigh on two years figurin' out what I should do to you when I caught up. Holliday was gonna be first, but 'ccording to you he's in New Mexico. But you're right here. (he pulls his gun) You're coming back to me, Kate. 
KATE: Oh, well, thank ya kindly, Johnny, but just supposin' I don't wish ta come back? 
RINGO: You'd better, that's all. I could mebbe change my mind. 
KATE: Oh, now, now. 
RINGO: Don't push your luck, Kate, just go git your things while I tell Regret that there's been a change of plan. Git!

[Sheriff's office]

(Phineas Clanton is taunting Warren Earp.) 
PHINEAS: Kinda young for responsibility, ain't you, boy? 
WARREN: Talkin' to me? 
PHINEAS: Can't think who else. 
WARREN: You're wastin' your time, Clanton. Save it for the Judge. 
PHINEAS: So you're Wyatt Earp's kid brother? How come he's lettin' you do all the work around here? Now I got brothers, only they wouldn't leave me to face things all on my lonesome, no, sir. 
WARREN: Seems to me, Clanton, that's exactly what they are doin'. 
PHINEAS: I wouldn't say so, boy. Take a look behind you. 
WARREN: I got no time to play games, Clanton. Why don't you just shut up. 
PHINEAS: Okay, but if'n I was you I'd take a look behind me just the same. 
(The door crashes open and Billy and Ike burst through.) 
BILLY: Don't try it, friend. 
IKE: Where's the head man around here? 
PHINEAS: Why, this is him, Ike. Don't you recognise one of the fightin' Earps when you see one? 
IKE: They get greener every year. 
PHINEAS: Don't kid around Ike. Masters'll be back soon. Get me outta here. 
BILLY: Where're the keys, Earp? 
WARREN: Over, over on the desk. 
BILLY: Go get 'em, and fast. 
(Warren reaches carefully for the keys, then at the last moment dives for his gun. But he's too slow.) 
BILLY: Yeehoo! 
(A bullet catches him in the chest and he sinks to the floor.) 
PHINEAS: Now that fixed it. They'll all be back here. Get me outta here. 
IKE: Get the keys, Billy. Make it fast. Come on, let's go, let's go. 
BILLY: That's just what I was needing.
IKE: Come on. 
BALLAD: It's curtains for Warren, 
They've gunned the kid down. 
And them bad, cruel outlaws 
Are heading for town. 
On your way then you cowboys 
The time will be soon 
When there's blood on the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon.

Episode Four - The OK Corral

[Last Chance Saloon]

BALLAD: He knew Johnny's name 
And he spoke it out loud. 
Now Charlie the barman 
Has gotten a shroud. 
(The Doctor and Bat Masterson stand solemnly by as Wyatt Earp covers Charlie's body.) 
DOCTOR: How do you know that the killer was Ringo? 
MASTERSON: On account of it must have been him or you, and I don't figure you killed Charlie the barman. Of course if'n you wanna persuade me different? 
DOCTOR: Certainly not, my dear Sheriff. 
WYATT: Now on the other hand, Bat, although the Clantons know he's not Doc Holliday, they did see him shoot a gun out of Seth Harper's hand. 
DOCTOR: That was nothing to do with me. 
WYATT: Oh, but they think it was, and boy you had 'em lined up against that piana' like skittles in an alley. Why, you're gonna be a useful man to have around when the shootin' starts. 
DOCTOR: I certainly hope that I should not be here. When Steven and Dodo come back 
WYATT: Oh you're gonna be here alright, Doctor, because I'm deputising ya right now. 
DOCTOR: Well. this is utterly absurd. Nothing will ever induce me to raise a gun in anger. 
WYATT: Well, maybe you won't have to. But I mean with just Bat an' me an' Warren against the Clantons, you could sure shorten the odds some. 
VIRGIL: And I'll help shorten them some more. 
WYATT: Well, hallelujah! This is my brother Virgil. 
VIRGIL: You got a drink for a thirsty man? 
WYATT: Well, I'd just about given up on you. 
VIRGIL: Hiya Bat. 
MASTERSON: How'd you do there. 
WYATT: Oh, I'm afraid that the bar's closed, Virgil. 
VIRGIL: Say, how'd that happen? 
WYATT: Oh, got himself shot. You don't know Pop, do ya? 
VIRGIL: Howdy. 
DOCTOR: Howdy. Would you mind not calling me Pop? 
WYATT: Well, let's get on back to the office. Come on, Bat. Warren's over there waiting for us but Morgan can't make it. I'll tell you about it on the way over. 
(The Doctor is left alone with a deputy's star pinned to his lapel and a gun once more in his hand.)

[Clanton ranch]

(The Clanton brothers arrive back at the family ranch, where Pa is waiting for them with Johnny Ringo, Kate and Steven.)
IKE: Bill, now we got 'im. 
BILLY: We got 'im Pa, we got 'im! 
PA: Seen ya coming. Took you long enough. 
BILLY: And we got us an Earp. 
RINGO: You done what? 
IKE: So you finally got here now the work's been done! 
RINGO: Ain't talkin' to you, Ike. Talking to Billy. Maybe get around to you later. 
BILLY: Like I said, we shot down one of the Earp brothers. 
RINGO: You shot Wyatt Earp? 
PHINEAS: No his kid 
IKE: Brother. 
PHINEAS: Warren. 
BILLY: Earp! 
PA: Well, glory be! Now you really have declared war.

[Sheriff's office]

BALLAD: It's curtains for Warren, 
They've gunned the kid down. 
And them bad, cruel outlaws 
Are heading for town. 
On your way then you cowboys, 
The time will be soon 
When there's blood on the sawdust 
In the Last Chance Saloon. 
(But Warren Earp is not quite dead.) 
WARREN: There was two of 'em, Wyatt. 
WYATT: Who? Who was it, boy? 
WARREN: Clantons, I guess. Come in real fast. Shouldn't have let Phin rile me. I turned my back a minute. 
WYATT: Oh, no one's a-blamin' you, son. Rest easy. 
WARREN: Don't let Morgan know they got my gun. 
VIRGIL: He's gone Wyatt. 
WYATT: Get him on over to the bench there. 
VIRGIL: Wyatt, it's no use. 
WYATT: Do like I said. 
(Sheriff Masterson helps Virgil to lift Warren's body and lay it out decently as instructed. Then he turns to face Wyatt.) 
MASTERSON: I'll get a warrant for 'em, Wyatt. I'll get 'em, you know that. 
WYATT: You'll get 'em? Virgil! 
VIRGIL: Yes, Wyatt? 
WYATT: Ride on out to the Clantons and tell 'em we'll be waitin' for 'em come sun up. 
MASTERSON: Now listen, Wyatt. There's a right and a wrong way of doing this. 
WYATT: Stay out of this, Bat. 
MASTERSON: This ain't legal, Wyatt. If'n you uphold the law you don't go startin' a private feud. 
WYATT: You gonna try 'n to stop me? 
MASTERSON: No, Wyatt, but I can't go along with ya. The law says that no 
WYATT: The law? The law can't bring my kid brother back. Virgil and me's gonna step outside of the law. 
VIRGIL: I reckon so, and I'll tell 'em. Where will I say? 
WYATT: Tell 'em the OK Corral. 
(Virgil leaves.) 
BALLAD: So the Earps and the Clantons 
Are aimin' to meet, 
At the OK Corral 
Near Calamity Street. 
(Wyatt takes out his revolver and loads the chamber with six bullets.) 
BALLAD: It's the OK Corral 
Boys of gun fighting fame, 
Where the Earps and the Clantons, 
They played out the game. 
They played out the game 
And we nevermore shall 
Hear a story the like 
Of the OK Corral.

[Clanton ranch]

(The Clantons and Ringo are eating a late supper.) 
PHINEAS: Pass the coffee. 
(Ike reaches across the table to grab some bread, much to Pa's displeasure. Thump.)
IKE: Ow! Pa! 
(Steven sits apart with Kate.) 
STEVEN: Look, I'm going to try to slip away, get word to Holliday. 
KATE: Oh, if the Doc knew I was here he'd blast my head off. Thanks. 
STEVEN: I'm sure he'd understand you were only trying to get Ringo off his trail. 
KATE: Ain't the way the Doc'd see it. 'Sides, you'd get shot in the back before you gone ten yards. 
STEVEN: Oh, I dunno why they want to keep me here. I'm no use to them. 
KATE: On account Ringo don't want Wyatt Earp to know he's here till he's good and ready. 
(A horse gallops up outside. The brothers grab their guns and run for the door.) 
PA: Now cut it out. We got trouble enough seein' Wyatt Earp already. 
PHINEAS: Oh, it ain't Wyatt. 
IKE: Ain't no one I seen afore. 
RINGO: I've seen 'im. Old acquaintance of mine, Marshall of Dodge City. Name of Virgil Earp. 
VIRGIL [OC]: Clanton! 
PA: I hear ya. 
VIRGIL [OC]: Got as message for ya. 
PA: Well, come on up. Ringo, you'd better get up on them stairs. We don't wanna show our ace before we're ready to deal. 
RINGO: Okay. If you want me, you'd better shout real loud. 
PA: Line up on the door, boys. 
(Ringo heads for the back of the parlour where he conceals himself. Steven and Kate retreat apprehensively to the side of the room as the Clantons spread out to stand tensely, hands poised at their hips and ready to draw as Virgil approaches the house.)
PA: Long way from Dodge City, ain't ya Marshall? 
VIRGIL: Reckon you know why I'm here. Your boys killed my kid brother, Clanton. 
PA: Well now there's two sides to every 
VIRGIL: Ain't here to argue. Just to say that Wyatt 'n me'll meet 'em at the OK Corral at sun up. 
IKE: And have a posse waitin'? You're crazy. 
VIRGIL: Masterson's got no part in this, neither has the law. Just a little private business to settle between our two families. 
PHINEAS: And supposin' we don't go? 
VIRGIL: Then we'll come a-lookin'. 
VIRGIL: Your friend there, whose side's he on? 
STEVEN: Oh, I'm with you and Wyatt. 
VIRGIL: D'you wanna to ride out with me? 
STEVEN: Yeah, I'd like to. Somehow I don't think it's gonna be possible. 
PA: Regret stays here. Now get. 
IKE: And tell Earp we'll be there. 
VIRGIL: I'll tell him. Sleep easy. 
(Phineas smirks after the departing Virgil.) 
PHINEAS: Well, it sure looks like a bad year for Earps. 
(Laughter.) 
PA: Ya hear that, Ringo? 
RINGO: I heard. 
IKE: Well, it looks like we got 'em. Two to four. 
RINGO: You mean I got 'em two to one. 
PHINEAS: How'd you figure that out? We'd be there too. 
RINGO: Sure you'd be there waitin' for 'em. Kinda like cheese in a mousetrap. 
BILLY: Now look 
RINGO: Ah shut up, Billy. You ain't got a hope in hell agin them two, only you ain't old enough to know it. 
IKE: So what do we do?! 
RINGO: Let me earn my money, why don't you? I'll take 'em from behind while you face 'em. 
BILLY: Never figured you for a back-shooter, Ringo. 
RINGO: I never figured you for any kind of a shooter Billy, which is why we'll do it my way, okay? Real careful.

[Sheriff's office]

(The Doctor enters still wearing his deputy's badge, though with some unease.) 
DOCTOR: Now Mister Werp, what part am I supposed to be playing in this feud between you and the Clantons? I thought that you gave me this to uphold the law, not 
MASTERSON: He's right, Wyatt. You can't ask him. 
DOCTOR: My main concern is for the safety of Steven and Dodo. Now can't I ask you to change your mind? 
MASTERSON: T'ain't no use, old timer. He won't listen to me, he won't listen to nobody. 
(Virgil returns.) 
WYATT: You seen 'em? 
VIRGIL: I seen 'em. 
WYATT: Gonna be there? 
VIRGIL: Oh they'll be there. Only thing is 
WYATT: Well? 
VIRGIL: Fella up there with 'em, name of Steven Regret. 
DOCTOR: Steven? What in the world? 
VIRGIL: Claimed he weren't no pal of theirs, but 
WYATT: Well Doc? 
DOCTOR: Well, if he's there it's not a matter of choice. He's still searching for Dodo with Ringo. 
VIRGIL: Well, I didn't see Johnny Ringo, but I sure enough saw his horse. And Kate, ain't she his girlfriend? Well she's there too. 
WYATT: So Ringo's with the Clantons, huh? Well, looks lie you an' me's gonna have a busy morning, Virgil. 
DOCTOR: Oh, this is sheer madness, Mister Sheriff. You can't take on the Clantons and Ringo. 
HOLLIDAY: They won't have to. 
WYATT: Doc! I thought I told you to get outta town. 
HOLLIDAY: Well now, Wyatt, so you did, but the fact is I was brung here at gunpoint by a woman. 
VIRGIL: You expectin' us to believe that? 
HOLLIDAY: The lady is here, the one and only Miss Dodo Dupont. 
(Dodo follows him into the office waving a gun above her head. With a flourish, Doc takes it from her.) 
HOLLIDAY: Ah, thank you. 
DODO: Doctor. Thank goodness you're safe. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear, I'm not in the slightest bit of danger. It was you that we were worried about.
HOLLIDAY: Well now, where do we meet these Clantons? 
VIRGIL: We? Now see here, Wyatt, I don't take kindly to fighting alongside an outlaw, friend of yours or no. 
HOLLIDAY: Suit yourself, Virgil. I'll just wish you good luck and go off to find my Kate. 
VIRGIL: Oh, you'll find her at the Clantons. 
HOLLIDAY: What's that you say? 
WYATT: Yeah, with Johnny Ringo. 
HOLLIDAY: Johnny Ringo? 
VIRGIL: I saw them myself, while or two back. 
HOLLIDAY: I'll be fightin' beside you two tomorrow mornin' whether you like it or not. 
DOCTOR: But this is ridiculous, gentleman. Can you not uphold the law without using firearms? 
WYATT: Well, old friend, now I've got Doc Holliday back, why, you can hand in your badge any time you want to, Pop. 
DOCTOR: Oh, good heavens, what a relief. Here you are, Bat, there's your badge and there is your wretched weapon! 
HOLLIDAY: Wyatt, how you proposin' to handle this little Clanton matter? 
WYATT: Well, just walk right up there and face 'em. 
HOLLIDAY: You reckon old Pa Clanton will play it that simple? 
VIRGIL: Well, they'll reckon they're four to two. 
HOLLIDAY: One of them four is Johnny Ringo. I ain't lining up for no square dance. I'm gonna play this my way. 
WYATT: So what's your way? 
DOCTOR: Yes, what is your way, Doctor Holliday?

[Last Chance Saloon]

(Later, the Doctor and Dodo are sitting alone in the bar.) 
DODO: Isn't it time you went to bed, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, how can I possibly sleep my dear, knowing that Steven is mixed up with all this? 
DODO: I'm quite sure that Steven can take care of himself. 
DOCTOR: Yes, but I'm not just worrying about Steven, my dear. What about this man Mister Werp? Supposing he gets killed? Who is going to uphold law and order in this territory? Why they couldn't let Masterson handle the affair I don't know, with a posse of deputies, and at the end of it let the Clantons get a fair trial. 
MASTERSON: Proud to hear you say so, Doctor. If'n you feel that way there's something you can do. I've tried all I know to talk Wyatt out of this and he won't listen. I'm asking you to go talk to the Clantons. Seems like that's our only chance. 
DOCTOR: Me? But my dear Sheriff, I should have thought you were the one to convince 
MASTERSON: No, no, they know me for a friend of Wyatt's. But if'n you go to 'em wearing your badge, say you'll guarantee them a fair trial, it might just persuade 'em. Me, I'd rather face trial than Wyatt, Virgil and Holliday together. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. 
DODO: And you might be able to help Steven. 
DOCTOR: Yes, quite so, my dear. That thought had passed through my head, yes. Well, Mister Sheriff, if you need my assistance I certainly will go along and talk to them. 
MASTERSON: Good. 
(Masterson once more pins the badge to the Doctor's coat.) 
MASTERSON: Now, it's only about two hours to sun-up. You'd better get started right now.

[Clanton ranch]

PA: Boys're on their way. 
STEVEN: On their way to murder? 
PA: That's a big word, boy. It fits though. 
STEVEN: This was meant to be a fair fight. 
PA: Think I wanna see my own sons killed? 
STEVEN: They may as well be if they win this way. Masterson'll see they hang for it. 
PA: When the shootin's over we'll have this town in the palm of our hand, including Masterson. 
STEVEN: There's still Morgan Earp. 
PA: If he's still alive we'll deal with him too. Can't build an empire, boy, without getting a mite unscrupulous. 
(There's a knock at the door.) 
PA: Come on in. 
DOCTOR: Mister Clanton, I presume? 
STEVEN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: No, not Doctor at the moment, dear boy. I am Deputy-Sheriff of Tombstone. 
PA: Well ain't that somethin'! My cattle been a-roamin' again? 
DOCTOR: I've come along to ask you to call off your boys from embarking on this ridiculous duel. 
PA: Yeah. Seems like they was the ones got challenged. 
DOCTOR: And if you'll do this I'm sure that Masterson will see that they get a fair trial. 
PA: Oh, that's real handsome. Only it don't fit in with my plans. 
DOCTOR: I see. You would prefer them to be shot down in the street? 
PA: Well, they can take their chances. 
STEVEN: Oh, they aren't taking any chances, Doctor. Johnny Ringo's going be behind the Earps. 
PA: One more yap outta you, Regret, you're dead, boy. 
DOCTOR: Ah tut, tut, tut, tut, tut. If you are alluding to the presence of Mister Ringo, I can assure you, sir, that that also has been anticipated. They're quite ready for him. 
PA: Okay, supposing they are? There's still only two of them against four. 
DOCTOR: You have been sadly misinformed. Doctor Holliday is there also. 
PA: What? Kate, you said Holliday was in New Mexico. 
KATE: I blush with shame, Mister Clanton, indeed I do. That was a dad blasted lie. He's right there in Tombstone with the Earps. 
PA: Doc Holliday and the Earps? Agin' my boys.

[Main Street]

BALLAD: So the cards, they are drawn 
An' the chips, they are down, 
Them outlaws and lawmen 
Are headin' for town. 
And the Earps and the Clantons 
Are aimin' to meet 
At the OK Corral 
Near Calamity Street. 
(Johnny Ringo and the Clanton brothers arrive at the OK Corral.) 
PHINEAS: We're early. 
RINGO: D'you wanna be late for your own funeral? 
BILLY: Now you cut that out, Ringo! 
IKE: Take it easy, kid. 
RINGO: Just remember what I told you. 
BILLY: Yeah, I remember. We're the bait in the trap. 
RINGO: That's right. Now don't forget. Start firing before they get into range, and go on firing so's they don't get a chance to look behind 'em. Because that's where I'll be, okay? Be seeing you. 
BALLAD: So them bad, cruel outlaws 
Are meeting up soon. 
And they've drunk their last drink 
In the Last-Chance Saloon.

[Sheriff's office]

WYATT: Well, best be going. 
MASTERSON: Wyatt, are you sure I can't stop ya? 
WYATT: Nope. 
MASTERSON: Okay. So, good luck. 
WYATT: Ready, Doc? 
HOLLIDAY: Oh, ready as I will be. Why these here get-togethers have to be held at sun-up I never will know. It ain't civilised. 
WYATT: Now just where're you gonna make your play from, Doc? 
HOLLIDAY: Well, it's like I said, Wyatt. I'll be strollin' along real easy behind you on the shady side of the street. Okay? 
WYATT: Okay. 
(Wyatt leads Virgil out. Holliday remains behind and lifts his hat to Masterson before he too leaves.)

[OK Corral]

BALLAD: It's the OK Corral 
Boys of gun fighting fame, 
Where the Earps and the Clantons, 
They played out their game. 
IKE: Here they come, boys. 
(The Earps appear at the corral entrance.) 
IKE: Now! 
(The Clantons open fire but the Earps stand their ground. 
IKE: Scatter! 
(The brothers split up and dive for cover, shooting as they go. As the Earps come into range they start to return fire.) 
WYATT: Take the side. 
(Doc Holliday is advancing slowly along the side of the street unaware that Ringo is just a few yards behind him.) 
DODO: Doc, look out! 
(Holliday spins round at Dodo's warning, but Ringo grabs the girl and smiles broadly at his rival.) 
RINGO: Well, if it ain't Doc Holliday. Who invited you, Doc? 
HOLLIDAY: You did, Ringo. It seemed kinda seemly to show up. 
RINGO: Throw down your gun, or the girl gets it. 
(Doc throws his revolver aside and it skims across the sidewalk, coming to rest in the road. Ringo's eyes follow it, and continuing to hold Dodo tightly as a shield, he moves to pick it up. But as the gunman stoops, Dodo catches him off balance and shoves him hard. He slips, landing on his back in the dirt. Dodo runs for shelter as Doc calmly takes out his Derringer and shoots.) 
HOLLIDAY: I'm sorry Johnny. 
(The Clantons and the Earps continue to trade bullets as Holliday stands over the dying Ringo.) 
HOLLIDAY: I thought you'd do better than that, Mister Ringo. 
RINGO: I will, next time. 
(Johnny lies still, and Doc retrieves his gun before turning to Dodo.) 
HOLLIDAY: Ah now Missy, you sure do perplex me. Go on now, you get the hell outta here. 
DODO: I'm sorry, Doc. I was only trying to help. 
HOLLIDAY: You try to help me any more, you'll be the death of me. Go on! 
(Holliday finds Wyatt Earp shooting from behind a barrel.) 
HOLLIDAY: Ringo was here. 
WYATT: And? 
HOLLIDAY: He ain't no more. 
(Billy Clanton is firing from beneath a wagon.) 
BILLY: Phin! I'm gonna get Doc Holliday! 
(Under cover of a volley of shots from Ike, Billy crawls forward to take new sanctuary under the porch of a building, from where he continues to fire on Holliday's position. But he's edgy, and his bullets go wide. Doc stands and takes careful aim. Blam, blam, blam. Billy looks up in surprise and pain before collapsing. He struggles to sit up, unable to grip his gun properly. Doc steps forward and looks Billy straight in the eye before firing a last shot. Billy's gun discharges harmlessly into the ground as he dies. Phineas looks on appalled, then breaks cover and runs around the back of the wagon, emerging at the other end in plain sight of Virgil Earp. His shirt stained crimson, Phineas staggers against the wagon, clutching at a wheel for support before finally sinking under a barrage of shots from the Earps. The last Clanton standing, Ike runs up some stairs and takes aim at Holliday as he peers around the corner. He pulls the trigger but the chamber is empty and the hammer clicks harmlessly. Doc fires, then Wyatt and Virgil. Ike tumbles over the handrail and bites the dust.) 
BALLAD: They paid their sins 
And they lost on the draw. 
For the Earps they was faster 
And they was the law. 
So beware all you cowboys 
Who's yearning to sin. 
If the Earps is the lawmen 
You ain't gonna win.

[Livery stable]

(Sometime later, the Doctor leads Steven and Dodo, along with Doc Holliday and Kate, back to where they left the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: Why on Earth you want to leave Tombstone, I can't imagine. All the Clantons are dead. Ringo is dead. 
HOLLIDAY: Masterson ain't. 
STEVEN: Yes, but surely Wyatt Earp 
HOLLIDAY: Wyatt Earp is no longer a lawman. Besides, he has killed two Clantons. 
DODO: Even so, he'd never let a friend down. 
HOLLIDAY: Neither would Masterson. 
KATE: Show 'em, Doc. 
(Holliday unrolls a wanted poster showing his picture and the offer of a 2,000 dollar reward.) 
HOLLIDAY: Ain't nothin' Masterson wouldn't do to oblige a friend. 
KATE: Ain't it always the same? 
HOLLIDAY: Always the same. 
DOCTOR: It's a very good likeness. 
HOLLIDAY: It's yours. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
HOLLIDAY: Goodbye to you all. Come along, Kate. 
(Arm in arm, Doc and Kate leave the stable.) 
DOCTOR: It's a terrible, terrible injustice. You know I'm very tempted to 
DODO: Listen! 
BALLAD: So fill up your glasses 
And join in the song, 
The law's right behind you 
And it won't take long. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear Dodo, my dear Dodo. You know you're fast becoming a prey to every clich-ridden convention in the American West. And it's high time we left. Now, come along. 
STEVEN: Thank goodness for that. 
DOCTOR: Come along now. 
DODO: Oh, but Doctor. 
DOCTOR: I don't want to discuss it any further. In you go. Come along! 
(The Doctor drops the wanted poster in the hay then goes into the Tardis after his companions.)

[Tardis]

(The time machine has landed once more, and the scanner shows the image of a rocky ravine.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I can say that I know just exactly where we are. 
DODO: Past, present or future? 
DOCTOR: In the future. Very much in the future. We've now reached the distant horizon of an age, an age of peace and prosperity. Now, I'm going to be off. 
(They all move away from the scanner just as a primitive looking figure wearing animal skins and carrying a club comes into view.)

[Tardis]

(The time machine has landed once more, and the scanner shows the image of a rocky ravine.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think I can say that I know just exactly where we are. 
DODO: Past, present or future? 
DOCTOR: In the future. Very much in the future. We've now reached the distant horizon of an age, an age of peace and prosperity. Now, I'm going to be off. 
(They all move away from the scanner just as a primitive looking figure wearing animal skins and carrying a club comes into view.)

[outside the Tardis]

(Leaving Steven and Dodo to wait by the Tardis, the Doctor sets off along a narrow path through the scrub. He stops occasionally to take readings, using a hand-held device that looks like an old-fashioned ship's compass. He chuckles to himself.) 
STEVEN: He said five minutes. 
DODO: The Doctor has no idea of time. For someone who's travelled about in time as much as he has, that's rather funny. 
STEVEN: This is nothing to laugh at, Dodo.
DODO: Oh, don't take it so seriously. If you're so worried about him, you shouldn't have let him go.
STEVEN: All right. You try telling the Doctor what to do. 
DODO: Then you should have gone with him. 
STEVEN: You heard what he said. 
DODO: You don't have to do everything he tells you. You're a grown man. Or are you?

[Scrubland]

(Along the ravine, the Doctor is absorbed in his studies, unaware that he's being watched from the nearby bushes. To his delight, the readings appear to confirm his initial conclusions.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's just as I thought. Yes. Yes, well I think my young friends are in for quite a surprise. 
(The Doctor moves on. Concealed in the bushes, two men dressed in animal skins watch him leave, then move to follow. Steven has left the Tardis landing site.) 
STEVEN [OC]: Doctor! Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear me, what was that now? Well, I shan't be long anyway. 
(Annoyed at the disturbance, the Doctor continues with his scans, oblivious to the potential threat of the watching men. 
STEVEN [OC]: Doctor? 
(Sensing movement, the Doctor turns and peers into the bushes.) 
STEVEN [OC]: Doctor? Doctor!

[Outside the Tardis]

(Dodo stands on a boulder and looks anxiously after Steven. She's unable to see him over the bushes but hears his voice clearly as he calls back to her.) 
STEVEN [OC]: He doesn't answer yet, Dodo. I think I'd better go and look for him. 
DODO: All right. 
STEVEN [OC]: I won't go far. 
(Dodo sits down on the boulder to wait. From somewhere above her comes the sound of pebbles trickling down into the ravine. Alarmed, she turns and peers around nervously, hoping that her imagination is playing tricks on her. After a moment, a primitive looking man appears on the ridge above, crouched and apparently ready to attack. Dodo screams. Steven comes running.) 
STEVEN: Dodo! What's happened? 
DODO: Up there. 
STEVEN: There's nothing there. 
DODO: I saw a man in animal skins and with an axe. 
STEVEN: You sure? Well, the Doctor said 
DODO: I don't care what he said. I saw him. He was like a savage from the Stone Age. 
STEVEN: Then the Doctor was wrong. We're not in the future at all. We must be back at the beginning of man.

[Scrubland]

(Having collected enough data, the Doctor starts back towards the Tardis.) 
DOCTOR: That ridiculous young man. He thought I'd made a mistake. 
(Behind the screen of bushes, the two primitives are fearful as the Doctor approaches their hiding place.) 
TOR: He is coming. What's he carrying? 
CHAL: It is not a light gun. 
TOR: He is one of the leaders? 
CHAL: He is not one of our people. 
TOR: He is coming near. We must run. 
CHAL: Stay. We kill this man. 
DOCTOR: Hello, there. I say, come out from underneath there. Now don't be alarmed. Come along now. 
TOR: Look. 
(Behind the Doctor, the savages can see two soldiers approaching along the path. 
DOCTOR: Can you hear me? Oh, I say, do come out from underneath there, will you? 
(The Doctor spins round.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious me. You know, I thought for one moment you were hiding behind those bushes. 
EDAL: We have come to welcome you. 
EXORSE: It is a great honour to have you visit our planet. 
(Captain Edal and his young companion are clad in synthetic military uniforms and elaborate helmets. Each carries an energy weapon with a wide, flared muzzle.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I see. Well, I am expected. Do you know who I am? 
EDAL: Not your name, of course, but our space observers have their own name for you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, and what might that be? 
EXORSE: You are known to us as the Traveller from Beyond Time. 
DOCTOR: I see. And how would you expect me here and now? 
EXORSE: The Elders of our city have been plotting the course of your space-time ship for many light years. They estimated your arrival some time ago. 
DOCTOR: I see. Yes, well, that's very clever of them. 
EDAL: What is this? We understood from our Elders that you did not carry weapons. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, they're quite right, yes, I never do. No, this is my RV, you see. This is my Reacting Vibrator. I'm able to do my calculations from this. As I told my young friends 
EDAL: You are not alone? 
DOCTOR: Good gracious, no. Did you expect me to be? 
EDAL: We have no information about your companions. 
DOCTOR: Oh, they're very pleasant. Yes, they're both very pleasant apart from their juvenile exuberances. I'm sure you'll like them. They must be at the back here somewhere. I think they're rather worried because I'm a bit late joining them. 
EDAL: We had no instructions about them. The Elders must be informed. You must come with us. 
DOCTOR: Must? 
EXORSE: Captain Edal wishes to take you to the Elders of our City. They are waiting to welcome you. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, of course, yes, yes, yes, I shall come with you. In the meantime, young man, I wonder if you'd mind trying to find my young people for me. Steven and Dodo. Tell them the Doctor sent you. 
EDAL: Go for them, Exorse. Bring them to the city. This way.

[Outside the Tardis]

STEVEN: I'll have to go and look for him, Dodo. Something must have happened to him. 
DODO: I'll come with you. 
(Dodo looks up once more.) 
DODO: Steven! 
STEVEN: What is it? 
DODO: There is something up there. 
STEVEN: Look, you're imagining things. Come on. 
(Dodo screams as something falls heavily to the ground at their feet.) 
DODO: Told you. 
(Steven pulls the object from the soil.) 
STEVEN: A spear. It's sharp as a knife. You were right, Dodo. There is someone up there. 
DODO: What are we do now? 
STEVEN: Back to the Tardis, quick. 
(Steven and Dodo turn and run back up the path. On the ridge above them, several primitives emerge from hiding, chasing them along the ravine throwing crude spears.) 
DODO: They're getting nearer! 
(Suddenly one of the savages is hit. Steven and Dodo take cover behind the Tardis as an unexpected silence falls. Dodo peers round the Tardis and screams.) 
EXORSE: Welcome to the Traveller's companions. You are Dodo and Steven? 
STEVEN: How do you know? Who are you? 
EXORSE: The Traveller told me I would find you here. 
STEVEN: The Traveller? You mean the Doctor? Is he all right? 
EXORSE: Perfectly. He has gone to meet the Elders of our City. 
DODO: But the savages? 
EXORSE: I think you will find that some of us are fairly civilised. 
DODO: Then this isn't the Iron Age? 
EXORSE: By no means. 
STEVEN: The Doctor was right. 
EXORSE: Please, come with me to the City. Our Elders wait to honour your Doctor. They will be very happy also to welcome his friends.

[Council Chamber]

(The Doctor is escorted to a vast walled city with sweeping arches and elegant columns constructed of pale stone. A place of light and learning bearing all the hallmarks of a highly advanced society. An elegant bearded man greets the Doctor with a warm smile.) 
JANO: You are welcome, welcome indeed. Though we know you only as a record in our charts of space and time, yet you seem to us like an old friend. 
DOCTOR: Well, that's very kind of you to make me feel so welcome. 
JANO: We are honoured by your visit. The whole city looks upon you with admiration. Let me introduce myself. I am Jano, leader of the council of Elders. These are my councillors. We have all known about you for a long time. Look, we have charted your voyages from galaxy to galaxy and from age to age, but we never thought that we would meet you face to face. This is a great moment in our history. To mark our admiration, we would be pleased if you would accept the office of one of our high Elders. 
DOCTOR: Well, my dear sir, that's very good of you. Yes, yes, very good of you indeed. Yes, I don't remember being so highly honoured before like this anywhere I've been. 
(Two female attendants step forward to dress the Doctor in the elaborate robes of a High Elder.) 
JANO: We recognise in you the greatest specialist in time-space exploration. You have taken this branch of learning far beyond our elementary calculations. 
DOCTOR: Oh, come, come, my dear sir. I know that you've been very responsible for vast scientific research. And at the same time, I always knew a race existed of great intelligence in this segment of the universe. 
JANO: Thank you, Doctor. We like to think that we have created here something of lasting value. 
DOCTOR: You have, you have. Indeed, you have. And if I may so say, thank you dear ladies for making me appear so grand. 
(The Doctor is admiring his new clothes as Exorse arrives.) 
EXORSE: The Doctor's two friends, sir. Steven and Dodo. 
JANO: You are very welcome. 
DOCTOR: Ah, there you are, both of you. Well, I don't think I was so far wrong, my boy. What do I look like, my dear? 
DODO: You're really with it now, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes. With what, my dear? 
STEVEN: What is this place? 
JANO: Did the Doctor not tell you? 
DODO: Not exactly. 
STEVEN: He said it was an age of peace and prosperity. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I was right. They are very highly developed civilised minds. 
JANO: But our calculations were incomplete. We did not realise that the Doctor would have anyone with him. Nevertheless, although our honours are for him, our gifts are for you. 
(Steven is presented with an ornate dagger and Dodo is given mirror inlaid with precious gemstones. ) 
DODO: Oh, thank you. It's beautiful. 
STEVEN: Look at that, Doctor. 
DODO: Steven, these are real diamonds. 
JANO: Perhaps Steven and Dodo would like to make themselves at home. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, thank you. 
JANO: Our young people will show them round. 
DOCTOR: An excellent idea, sir. Well, my boy, now perhaps you'll believe me next time I tell you I know precisely where I am. 
(Steven and Dodo are lead away as the Doctor turns back to Jano.) 
JANO: Now, Doctor, we have many questions to ask you.

[Outside the City]

EDAL: We're only the city guard, of course. They don't ask our opinion, do they? 
EXORSE: What's the matter, Captain? 
EDAL: I don't trust them. I never did trust strangers. Why should we treat this old Doctor as one of ourselves? 
EXORSE: The Elders think highly of him. 
EDAL: The Elders. All right, we've wasted enough time this morning. Get back on patrol. Take the Crater section. 
(Edal and Exorse split up. At a distance the savages, now accompanied by a girl, watch them go.) 
CHAL: They have begun hunting. 
TOR: We must warn our people. 
CHAL: Nanina, go back to the caves. Tell the families to hide. 
NANINA: But what of you, Chal? 
CHAL: We will be safe, we will warn the others. Nanina, take care in the craters. 
(Nanina slips away. Out in the craters, Exorse is quartering the ground in a standard search pattern. He's poised and alert, with his gun raised, one finger curled in readiness on the trigger.)

[City Avenue]

(Steven and Dodo are being guided by a young man, Avon, (no, not Paul Darrow) and a girl called Flower.) 
FLOWER: We have built into the city a life-giving sun of our own. Isn't that right, Avon? 
AVON: It is man's intellect which decides the heat and cold in our city. 
FLOWER: Yes. After all, the Elders do know what's best for us, although it would be rather nice to know what real things are like sometimes. 
AVON: Real what? 
FLOWER: You know. Real wind, real rain, real sunshine. 
AVON: Don't be ridiculous. They have given us all this. 
DODO: It's beautiful. 
AVON: Our artists have every opportunity to develop their talents. Here, everyone has a chance to do what is best for him to do. 
STEVEN: It's certainly a wonderful job. But how have you managed it? What's the secret? 
FLOWER: Secret? What makes you think we have a secret? 
STEVEN: Other civilisations have failed to make this advance. 
FLOWER: Well, that doesn't mean 
AVON: Be quiet, Flower. Our scientists have made one simple discovery, and due to this they have found the way to give us all greater energy, greater intellect and greater talents. 
STEVEN: One simple discovery? 
DODO: What was it? 
AVON: This is something best discussed by the Elders and your Doctor.

[Council Chamber]

DOCTOR: Well, gentlemen, I can't just sit here in all these grand clothes without asking a few questions. After all, there's my reputation to think about. 
JANO: What do you mean, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, if I accept your gifts, I must endorse your life. But I can't do that without knowing something about you. 
JANO: But surely you know a great deal about us. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I know very well that you are far advanced than most planets. But how you achieve this, I know not. And let's face it gentlemen, you are much advanced. Now, I would like to know how.

[Outside The City]

(Nanina is used to hiding from the guards with their light guns, but that doesn't make her any less afraid, and she makes slow progress, scrambling tentatively from one hiding place to another. Poised close to the mouth of the ravine, she hears a movement and spots Exorse patrolling the ridge above. Taking cover, Nanina waits for him to move away. Chal and Tor look down into the ravine, Tor straining to catch sight of Nanina.) 
TOR: I cannot see her. She must have got away. 
CHAL: She has not crossed the ravine yet. She is still hiding. 
TOR: Can you see the hunter? 
CHAL: He is going into the ravine. 
(Exorse makes his way along the floor of the ravine and disappears from sight. Still concealed in the craters, Nanina is all too aware that she must move on, and quickly, but there's scant cover between her current position and the mouth of the ravine. Steeling her nerves, Nanina forces herself to scramble forward with more haste than caution, her fear making her careless. She slithers down into the basin of the ravine in a shower of stones, alerting Exorse to her position.) 
CHAL: He is over there. And Nanina? 
TOR: She is there too. 
CHAL: Nanina! 
(Panicking, Nanina starts running along the ravine like a frightened rabbit. Desperately scanning the rocks around her, she misses her footing and goes sprawling on the ground. Frantically she claws her way forward then scrambles to her feet again, running on in blind panic. As Chal and Tor watch, Exorse appears on the ridge above Nanina. He takes aim with his light gun.) 
CHAL: Nanina! Not that way! 
(Exorse fires his weapon. Nanina is engulfed in intense light, trapped like a fly in amber. By moving the light gun, Exorse can control Nanina's movements like a puppet. He directs her out of the craters and back towards the city.) 
TOR: He has taken her.

[Council Chamber]

JANO: Life preys on other forms of life, as you know, Doctor. Wild beasts live on other animals. Mankind must have food, water, and oxygen. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, it's quite obvious to the meanest intellect that, well, how can I say, that you've found a much more effective source of energy. 
JANO: That is true, Doctor. We have learned how to transfer the energy of life directly to ourselves. We can tap it at its source. It is as though we were able to recharge ourselves with life's vital force.

[Outside the City]

(Exorse and Nanina have left the ravine and pass close by where Tor and Chal are hiding. Nanina is powerless under the influence of the light gun, and does not react as Chal calls out.) 
CHAL: Nanina. Leave her. Leave the girl. Take me in her place! 
(But Exorse ignores the old man, and he and his captive continue on their way.)

[Council Chamber]

(Jano proudly shows the Doctor a complex model of the technology that forms the heart of their society.) 
JANO: The energy of life which we accumulate we store in vats such as these. Then, when the Elders decide that some member of the community needs new force, we can transfer that energy directly. 
DOCTOR: To a member of your community. 
JANO: Exactly. We can give ourselves new power. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Of course, you need a very high form of life to make this source effective. 
JANO: That is true, Doctor. We absorb only a very special form of animal vitality.

[City Avenue]

(Emerging from the scrubland, Exorse and Nanina approach the city wall. Before them, a tall diamond shaped portal starts to slide to one side as Exorse activates the opening mechanism. Not too far away, Flower is proving to be an enthusiastic guide.) 
FLOWER: Don't think we're always serious. We play games, we dance, we go hunting. Our life's very happy. We do everything we want, go everywhere we want. 
AVON: Do not go that way. 
DODO: I thought you said we could go anywhere. 
AVON: Well, it leads to the world beyond the City. 
DODO: Don't you ever go outside? 
FLOWER: We're not allowed to. 
AVON: There is no need. 
FLOWER: Yes, that's right. Everything we want, we have here in the City. 
STEVEN: What about the men we met outside? 
FLOWER: They're the guards. 
DODO: What, to keep back the savages? 
AVON: The savages? 
DODO: The men in animal skins. 
AVON: You saw them? 
DODO: They threw spears at us. 
AVON: Yes, well, the guards are to keep these people away. That is why we seldom go beyond the City. 
FLOWER: Let's forget such a dismal topic. Come, I'll show you the stadium. There's going to be a celebration there tonight especially for you. 
(The tour continues but Dodo lags behind. Through a narrow window she catches sight of Exorse and Nanina outside, as Exorse forces Nanina through the door and into the City ahead of him.) 
AVON: Dodo! 
DODO: I'm coming. Every time I want to see something, they stop me. 
STEVEN: Dodo, you're a guest here. Try to behave like one. 
DODO: I hate conducted tours. 
STEVEN: What were you goggling at anyway? 
DODO: I saw one of the guards go past. He had a prisoner. 
STEVEN: You must be off your head! You wouldn't have a prisoner in a place like this. 
DODO: He had one of the savages with him. A girl. She seemed to be moving along in a light that shone from one of those guns they carry. 
STEVEN: Oh Dodo, really. 
DODO: Oh no, it's true. It was like a torch. As he moved, she went ahead. 
FLOWER: Come along, we're just wondering which way to take you now. 
DODO: Why are they so cautious about what they show us? 
STEVEN: You imagine things. 
FLOWER: What are you whispering about? 
STEVEN: We're just coming. 
DODO: We're not going to find out much about this place from these two, are we? 
STEVEN: Come on!

[City corridor]

(Exorse project Nanina through a series of metal corridors deeper into the City. As they approach a door at the end of the last corridor, the light beam wavers and moves off Nanina. Disengaged, she reels and slumps against the wall.) 
NANINA: Please, please let me go. 
(Exorse deactivates the light gun and presses a button to request entry.)

[Control room]

(The chief scientist looks up from his work.) 
SENTA: That must be Exorse. He's already behind his deadline. What's happening to security this morning? 
(Two technicians wheel a gurney across the centre, on which a male savage is strapped. He appears extremely weak and disorientated.) 
SENTA: He seems very depleted. What's his vitality reading? Seventeen point four. They took that very low. Can't they follow instructions in there, or have I got to supervise every transfer of energy myself. Now, let's see. His recuperative charge is high. He'll recover. Those confounded guards, they're all the same. They keep you waiting, throw the whole routine out of gear, and then they expect you to be ready for them the moment they arrive. All right, take him away. Release him. Help him along corridor KO4, emergency exit. Go ahead. 
(An assistant helps the exhausted figure to his feet and leads him from the room. Senta opens another door to allow Exorse entry. Seeing Nanina, Senta turns to instruct one of his technicians.) 
SENTA: Prepare this one. A47. We're behind schedule. We must transfer immediately. I am filing a complaint, Exorse. You're late. Surely she didn't give you much trouble? 
EXORSE: Of course not. I was delayed by the strangers. 
SENTA: You've seen them? 
EXORSE: Captain Edal and I were the first to find them. We brought them back. That was why I was late. 
SENTA: You've actually seen them. What are they like? 
EXORSE: Very like us, in some ways. 
SENTA: But in some ways, they're different? 
EXORSE: Yes, but I can't quite say what it is. I must be going. 
(Exorse leaves.) 
SENTA: Is A47 ready yet? Yes, that seems all right. Tell them to be quite sure not to take A47 below vitality reading 24. 
(At the chime, Senta activates a control to open the door, and the assistant who removed the savage reappears.) 
SENTA: Is he all right? Let's see. 
(Senta activates an observation screen and appears satisfied to observe the man moving slowly away.

[City]

(Steven stares from a window onto a beautiful communal square with a fountain. He's impressed by what he's seen but still has questions.) 
STEVEN: This city really is fantastic. You've fountains, music, everything. 
AVON: Yes, we're very proud of it. 
STEVEN: Why is it only within the confines of the City itself that you have such ideal conditions? What about beyond? 
FLOWER: Well 
AVON: We've told you before. We have everything here that we need. 
(Distracted, Dodo has spotted Exorse emerging from a concealed doorway.)

[Control room]

(Nanina is now strapped to a trolley.) 
NANINA: Please, please. 
SENTA: All right. Take her away. 
NANINA: Oh no! No! No please! 
(Nanina is wheeled away out of the control room and into the laboratory beyond.)

[City]

(Curiosity aroused, Dodo slips away from the others and crosses to the doorway from which Exorse appeared. She quickly works out how to open the door and ventures inside. The door closes behind her. She finds herself in a darkened corridor and hesitates slightly as her eyes grow accustomed to the gloom.)

[Council Chamber]

JANO: Doctor, do you realise that with our knowledge, we can make the brave man braver, the wise man wiser, the strong man stronger. We can make the beautiful girl more beautiful still. You will see the advantages of that in the perfection of our race.

[City]

FLOWER: Come and see this, Dodo. 
STEVEN: Yes, come on, Dodo, I'm sure you'll find. Oh, no. Now where's she gone? What's happened? 
FLOWER: Dodo? 
STEVEN: Dodo? Dodo, where are you?

[Corridor]

(Ahead of her, Dodo can make out a glimmer of light and she moves cautiously towards it. She creeps along, heading slowly for a T junction in the corridors from where the light shines dimly. Slowly she becomes aware of ragged breathing and shuffling footsteps coming closer. The strange acoustics in the corridors mean she cannot pinpoint the direction of the noises. She edges ahead nervously, eventually reaching the junction. Summoning all her courage, she steps into the next corridor. Dodo finds herself confronted by a male savage dressed in animal skins. His eyes are wide, staring blindly ahead as he stumbles forward. Frozen in terror, Dodo is unable to move as he lurches towards her, his arms outstretched. She screams.

Episode Two

[Corridor]

(The savage lurches towards Dodo, but it is quickly clear she has nothing to fear. He's utterly drained and appears unaware of her presence. He drags himself past her and towards the door at the far end of the corridor. The door slides open, light flooding in. The exhausted man collapses, and Dodo goes to help him. He tries to speak but cannot. As Dodo helps him outside he stumbles, and Dodo is startled as two more savages emerge from the bushes to help him up. Chal sees Dodo and raises his spear to attack. The fallen man manages to stop him as Dodo retreats into the corridor and the door slides closed once more. Faint sounds of machinery and bubbling noises draw Dodo's attention. She moves back along the corridor to investigate.)

[Senta's laboratory]

(Nanina is still strapped to the trolley and inside a glass case.) 
NANINA: Please, no, don't, please, don't, no, no 
(Several technicians bustle around, making preparations as she cries.) 
SENTA: Make the connection. 
(A large inverted funnel device is lowered into place over Nanina's body. Dodo moves cautiously down the corridor, disturbed by the faint sounds ahead. She stops and listens, then frowns and moves on again. Along one side of the laboratory, huge glass-windowed bottles filled with inert black liquid sit waiting.) 
SENTA: Vapourisation? 
TECH 1: Vapourisation on. 
TECH 2: Vapourisation on. 
TECH 3: Vapourisation on. 
(As the technicians switch on the banks of machinery, a white mist swirls around Nanina.) 
SENTA: Prepare for transfer. 
TECH 1: Standing by. 
(Senta turns a wheel on the control panel and the vats begin to bubble. Dodo is closer now, and strains to listen to the sounds coming from within the laboratory.) 
TECH 1: Twenty three point zero 
TECH 2: Thirty eight 
TECH 1: Twenty four point zero nine 
TECH 2: One hundred. 
(The black liquid within the vats is now bubbling furiously and beginning to clear slightly. Nanina lies still, resigned to her fate.) 
TECH 2: One point zero two.

[City]

STEVEN: Dodo! Dodo, where are you? What could have happened to her? 
AVON: I cannot think. Perhaps she's playing a joke. 
STEVEN: What do you mean? 
FLOWER: She may be hiding. Just a game. 
STEVEN: Not even Dodo'd be as stupid as that. Something must have happened to her. Dodo! Dodo!

[Senta's laboratory]

(Dodo reaches the end of the corridor and stops. TECH 1: Three point five zero. 
TECH 2: Thirty one 
(Dodo enters, amazed.)

[Council Chamber]

JANO: So you see Doctor, with this new stimulus, intellectual workers find themselves able to accomplish more. Artists are able to create works of brilliance and beauty. Everything citizen 
STEVEN [OC]: Doctor! Doctor! 
(Steven comes rushing in.) 
DOCTOR: My dear Steven, you must not come bursting into the room like this. Well? 
STEVEN: Well it's Dodo. She's gone. 
DOCTOR: Gone? What do you mean, gone? 
STEVEN: She's completely vanished. 
JANO: What are we to understand by this, Avon? 
AVON: It's true. 
FLOWER: Dodo was with us, and she vanished into thin air. 
DOCTOR: Well, I really don't know what all this fuss is about. I'm sure the child won't come to any harm while she here. 
JANO: No. She cannot leave the city. 
DOCTOR: If I know that young lady, she's well enough to look after herself. Now, come along, please let's finish the conversation. 
STEVEN: But Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Tut, tut, tut.

[Senta's laboratory]

(Dodo still hasn't been noticed in the doorway.) 
SENTA: Subject is very weak. Prepare to switch. I'll give you the signal. 
(The liquid in the vats is nearly clear now, yet the previously agitated bubbling has reduced to a gentle effervescence. 
SENTA: Slowly, slowly. 
(Dodo has been spotted.) 
SENTA: Vitality reading? 
TECH 1: Twenty six. 
SENTA: Carefully now. 
(Technician 2 makes a grab for Dodo.) 
TECH 2: In the control room with her. Quick.

[Control room]

DODO: What do you think you're doing. Leave me alone! 
TECH 3: Who is she? 
TECH 2: She must be from outside. I'll check the list. 
TECH 3: Why is she wearing such strange clothes? 
DODO: You keep your hands to yourself. 
TECH 2: We have no record of her. The only female in here is the one who is in there now. 
TECH 3: She must be from outside. Is she for transference? 
TECH 2: She must be. What else? We'd better make preparations. 
(The two technicians advance on Dodo.) 
DODO: No, no, no!

[City]

AVON: We came along here, you see, then we stopped and looked out of this window. 
FLOWER: The window? 
EDAL: It's too small. She couldn't get out of that. You should have watched her. You'll be held responsible. 
FLOWER: We thought she was following. We didn't know she could vanish. 
EDAL: She passed here? 
AVON: Yes, but she couldn't go through it. 
EDAL: Why not? 
(Edal opens the concealed door.) 
STEVEN: Hey, what is this? 
FLOWER: Oh, it's nothing. We never use it. Pay no attention. 
EDAL: The guards use it. 
FLOWER: Oh, we never go there. None of the young people do. Dodo would never go down there. 
STEVEN: You don't know her. She'd go anywhere. 
EDAL: If she's gone down there, I wouldn't give much for her chances. 
STEVEN: What do you mean? 
EDAL: I wouldn't give much for yours either. 
FLOWER: She wouldn't go that way. It's not allowed. 
STEVEN: Well, if it isn't allowed, Dodo would be the first in the queue. I'm going to take a look. 
EDAL: Stay where you are! 
(Edal draws his gun, barring the way.)

[Laboratory]

(Attempts to restrain Dodo have failed, so one of the technicians has gone to fetch Senta.) 
TECH 2: Something very strange has happened, Senta. We have one of the outsiders, but she does not submit. She is fighting. 
SENTA: What? 
TECH 2: In the control room. 
SENTA: Take over.

[Control room]

(Dodo is evading the other technician.) 
DODO: I don't know what you do in here, but whatever it is, I don't like it! Oh, no you don't! I don't know who on Earth you think I am, but you'd better keep back. This equipment must cost a packet. Keep back, or I'll smash the lot! 
SENTA: Don't move! She could kill everyone.

[City]

EDAL: You're not allowed in there. 
STEVEN: It's the only place she can be. 
EDAL: I will go and see. 
(Edal goes down the passage.) 
[Laboratory]

(The transference vats are bubbling furiously again.) 
TECH 1: Senta! Senta!

[Control room]

SENTA: Who are you? 
DODO: I'm with the Doctor. We are guests here. If this is how you treat your guests. 
SENTA: You are one of the people from beyond time? 
TECH 2: How is it possible? 
DODO: Yes, I am. 
SENTA: But why are you here? TECH 1 [OC]: Senta! 
SENTA: Stay here. 
TECH 1: It is almost too late.

[Laboratory]

(Dodo follows them and watches as Senta adjusts some controls.) 
SENTA: Break the connection! 
(Edal arrives and goes to Dodo.) 
EDAL: What are you doing here? 
DODO: I just came through that door up there. 
SENTA: I shall report the whole matter. Who is in charge of the party? 
EDAL: What has she seen? 
SENTA: It's hard to say. 
EDAL: The Elders have already been told. 
SENTA: Well, get her out of here! 
EDAL: I already have my orders. Come along, this way. 
DODO: All these instruments, that big glass thing, and those huge bottles. What do they do here? 
EDAL: Come along. Your friends are waiting for you. 
(Edal and Dodo leave. Senta gestures towards Nanina.) 
SENTA: Get her out. 
(The technicians obey. She is unconscious.) 
TECH 1: Is it too late? 
SENTA: Not quite. We've been lucky. Make a record of this for her files. It must be some considerable time before we extract any more life energy from this particular subject.

[City]

(Edal returns with Dodo.) 
STEVEN: Where the dickens did you get to? 
DODO: Oh, don't you start now. 
STEVEN: Why? What happened? 
DODO: You have no idea. I was attacked by some sort of mad doctor. 
FLOWER: Oh, Dodo. What a ridiculous story. 
DODO: What goes on down there anyway? Is it a sort of hospital? 
AVON: Yes, yes that's right. It's a hospital. 
FLOWER: Perhaps they thought you were a patient. 
DODO: I wouldn't like to be a patient in their hands. 
EDAL: You must have a reason for saying that. I would like to know what it is. What did you see? 
DODO: It wasn't anything I saw exactly, just a feeling about the place. It was all so sterile and inhuman. 
STEVEN: Er, she imagines things. 
FLOWER: I can see that. I know just the place to cheer you up, Dodo. 
EDAL: You will have to report to the Elders. I will take you there. You two will undoubtedly be called to answer for your negligence. 
DODO: Oh, I hope I haven't landed you in any trouble. 
FLOWER: Oh, no, we'll be all right. 
AVON: Of course we will be. Perhaps we'll see you both later. 
STEVEN: Yes. I hope so. 
EDAL: Stay here. A guard will collect you. 
AVON: Must Flower be taken before the Elders? It was my fault. I should have kept a better watch on Dodo. 
EDAL: You should be thinking of your own defence. 
FLOWER: Oh, Avon, what will happen to us? Will they take? 
AVON: Do not worry, Flower. That is only for the savages. 
FLOWER: Are you sure? 
AVON: I'm sure you will be all right. 
FLOWER: But the guard's coming for us. 
AVON: Do not be afraid. After all, this is a free state, isn't it, and we are all equal here. 
FLOWER: But 
AVON: They cannot harm us. 
STEVEN: You all right? 
DODO: I am now. 
STEVEN: I told you not to go off by yourself. 
DODO: Don't worry, it won't happen again. 
(Steven and Dodo leave, then a guard comes for Avon and Flower. He uses his light gun on them to lead them away.)

[Laboratory]

(Nanina is awake and untied, but very dazed.) 
SENTA: You are to go. You understand? You are to go. Help her to release exit number four.

[Council Chamber]

DOCTOR: A very interesting discussion, gentlemen. Yes, I must say. 
(Edal, Dodo and Steven enter.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, so there you are, my dear. You know you had that young man in quite a state. 
DODO: Doctor, I must speak to you. I want to tell you what happened. 
DOCTOR: Not for the moment, my dear. 
STEVEN: I think you ought to listen. 
DOCTOR: Do you my boy? Well, I'm afraid I can't just now. I've had a very interesting discussion with these gentlemen. You know, I have some documents which I think that you might be interested to see. They're records of my investigations into time travel. You might find them rather surprising. 
JANO: You intend to return to the Tardis, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, just for the moment. But I won't be long. 
STEVEN: I'll come with you. 
DOCTOR: Oh, splendid, my boy. Thank you. I need someone to help me carry a few things. 
JANO: I'll send one of my guards with you. 
DOCTOR: No, no, thank you, that won't be necessary. Thank you, indeed. Well, come along, my dear. We don't want to lose you again, do we? (The Doctor, Steven and Dodo leave.) 
JANO: How serious is it? 
EDAL: What she saw meant nothing to the girl. 
JANO: But does she suspect anything? 
EDAL: It's hard to say. What about the Doctor? 
JANO: He is a very sophisticated man, Captain. It is impossible to know what he thinks. 
EDAL: It might be wise to keep an eye on him. 
JANO: It might be very wise. Follow them.

[outside the City]

(Our travellers set off across the scrubland back to the Tardis, with Edal following at a discreet distance.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, now. Wait a minute, let me see, where are we? 
DODO: Doctor, why wouldn't you let me tell you what happened? 
DOCTOR: Because I didn't want those gentlemen to overhear what you were saying, child. 
STEVEN: Who? Jano and the Elders? 
DOCTOR: Precisely. 
STEVEN: Why, don't you trust them? 
DOCTOR: Not altogether. 
STEVEN: What have you discovered? 
DOCTOR: Nothing really, but I sense that things aren't all together right here. Now I think we go this way, isn't it? Come along. 
STEVEN: Hey, wait a minute. 
DOCTOR: What? 
STEVEN: What's that? 
(A body is lying in the bushes.) 
DODO: It's one of the savages. 
DOCTOR: Really? But he's not moving. Yes, yes, let's take a look. Hold that. Here. 
(The man tries to get to his feet, but falls back.) 
DODO: Why, that's him, the man in the corridor. The one I helped. But there were two others. 
DOCTOR: Was he in this condition when you met him before? 
DODO: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Did he come out of that laboratory? 
DODO: Yes, I think so. What's that matter with him, Doctor? Do you know? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, I think I do, yes. It's just as I feared. 
DODO: Feared? 
DOCTOR: Yes, their wonderful civilisation is based on this. They've discovered a way of extracting life's force from human beings, and absorbing it into themselves, leaving the victim, as you see, almost dead. 
DODO: What can we do to help him? 
DOCTOR: Here's the key to the Tardis, my boy. Now I want you to go to the emergency cabinet and you will see a container with capsules marked D403. Bring it back here as soon as you can. I think we might be able to do something for the poor man. 
STEVEN: Right. 
DOCTOR: Meanwhile, take that, I don't want it anymore. 
(The Doctor hands his RV to Steven, who leaves with Dodo.) 
DOCTOR: Now, now, now, now you just rest there, there's a good fellow. We'll have you as right as rain in five minutes. Now I just want you to breathe in and out. Gently. One, two. One 
EDAL: Do you require assistance, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: What do you know of this? 
EDAL: He's one of the savages. I shouldn't let him worry you. He's probably shamming. He should be back on the reserve. Come on, you lazy animal, get up, move! Get back to your sector. 
DOCTOR: What are you doing, fellow? Leave the man alone. He'll probably die. 
EDAL: I don't think there's much chance of that, Doctor. Come on, you, move. 
DOCTOR: I insist that you leave him alone! 
EDAL: I don't think you understand, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: I think I understand only too well. 
EDAL: You do? And you still waste time on this creature? 
DOCTOR: This human being! 
EDAL: Why the concern, Doctor? They are only savages. 
DOCTOR: They are men. Human beings, like you and me. Although it appears at the moment that you're behaving in a rather sub-human fashion. 
EDAL: They have not developed like we have. They are savages! Come on. 
DOCTOR: I forbid you to touch him! 
EDAL: You are obstructing me, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: I am looking after this wretched fellow. 
EDAL: You will come with me. 
DOCTOR: I have already told you I'm busy. I'm going to take care of this poor man. 
EDAL: I have warned you! You will do as I order you! 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
EDAL: Or you'll know the alternative. You will come with me back to the city. 
(Edal draws his light gun and the Doctor is forced to comply. On the ground, the fallen savage raises his head weakly to watch them leave. A while later, Steven and Dodo return with a small metal container.)
DODO: Where were they? 
STEVEN: Over there. 
DODO: Where's the Doctor? 
STEVEN: Doctor? Doctor! 
DODO: Now what do we do? 
STEVEN: Give him the capsules. 
DODO: What about the Doctor? 
STEVEN: Oh, you know what he's like. He'll be back. He's just roamed off somewhere. 
DODO: Here, take this. 
(With an effort, the helpless savage swallows the capsule.) 
DODO: Shall I give him another one? 
STEVEN: Yes, that first one seems to have done him good. 
(As she hands over a second pill, her eyes scan the ridge.) 
DODO: Steven, the savages! And they've got spears! 
(Up on the ridge.) 
TOR: I'll aim for the man. You kill the girl. 
CHAL: No, we must not kill them. 
TOR: They have no light guns. They cannot harm us. It will be revenge. 
CHAL: Revenge is no good! And what would the guards do to our people? 
TOR: But we must save Wylda. 
CHAL: Not by killing. 
TOR: If we wait too long he will die. 
CHAL: He will not die. They will not let him die. They take their strength from the living. We must wait and be patient. It might be a trap. Come on. 
(Dodo watches as the savages creep closer.) 
DODO: We must get away. 
STEVEN: To the city? 
DODO: No, I don't want to go back there. 
STEVEN: All right. Where to, then? 
DODO: Well, couldn't we get to the Tardis? 
STEVEN: Might be too late. Besides, we can't go. They might have got the Doctor. 
DODO: They're coming nearer. 
STEVEN: All right. Don't let them see you're afraid. 
DODO: I'll try. 
(Tor raises his spear to attack.) 
TOR: Kill them! 
CHAL: Wait! 
WYLDA: Do not kill. 
CHAL: Wylda speaks. 
WYLDA: Do not kill them. They're friends. 
CHAL: Friends? What did you give him? 
STEVEN: We gave him medicine. 
CHAL: Why? 
STEVEN: Because he's sick. 
CHAL: We left him to recover. He is not sick. 
STEVEN: But look at him! 
CHAL: You think he is sick? 
STEVEN: Yes! 
CHAL: You are from the city? 
DODO: No, we're not. 
CHAL: You must come from the city. 
STEVEN: No, we come from another place. 
TOR: We have seen you. You were in the city. 
STEVEN: We were taken there. 
CHAL: You have friends in the city? 
WYLDA: She helped me, and the old man spoke against it. 
STEVEN: The Doctor? Where is he? 
WYLDA: They have taken him. 
STEVEN: Taken him! 
DODO: Where to? 
WYLDA: To the city. 
DODO: They've taken him prisoner? Steven, what are we going to do? 
STEVEN: Who took him? 
WYLDA: The guard. 
STEVEN: One of the guards? Why would they want to do a thing like that? 
WYLDA: The old man was angry. He tried to protect me from their captain.

[Council Chamber]

JANO: We do not understand you, Doctor. You who have accepted our honours gladly, how can you condemn this great artistic and scientific civilisation because of a few wretched barbarians? 
DOCTOR: So your rewards are only for the people that agree with you? 
JANO: No. No, of course not. But if you are going to oppose us. 
DOCTOR: Oppose you? Indeed I am going to oppose you, just in the same way that I oppose the Daleks or any other menace to common humanity. 
JANO: I am sorry you take this attitude, Doctor. It is most unscientific. You are standing in the way of human progress. 
DOCTOR: Human progress, sir? How dare you call your treatment of these people progress! 
JANO: They are hardly people, Doctor. They are not like us. 
DOCTOR: I fail to see the difference. 
JANO: Do you not realise that all progress is based on exploitation? 
DOCTOR: Exploitation indeed! This, sir, is protracted murder! 
JANO: We have achieved a very great deal merely by the sacrifice of a few savages. 
DOCTOR: The sacrifice of even one soul is far too great! You must put an end to this inhuman practice. 
JANO: You leave me no choice. Take him away, Captain. And tell Senta that we have an emergency. I shall be sending him special instructions.

[outside the City]

STEVEN: We must do something to help. 
CHAL: There is nothing we can do. 
STEVEN: Look, the people in the city are just men. You can fight them. 
CHAL: They are too strong. 
DODO: We are not going to let them do anything to the Doctor. 
CHAL: They have the light guns. 
TOR: They will use the Doctor like the rest of us. 
DODO: What do you mean? 
CHAL: They will take him to the room where the great vats are. 
STEVEN: What will happen to him there? 
CHAL: He will become like us. 
STEVE: We'll see about that. 
CHAL: They'll do the same to you if you

[Senta's laboratory]

EDAL: Senta, this is the Doctor, the traveller from beyond time. 
DOCTOR: So this is the place where you carry out your foul experiments. 
SENTA: This is my laboratory. I'm honoured to meet you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. What's this? 
SENTA: Why have you brought the Doctor down here today? I've no time for visitors. We have a very full schedule, as you're well aware, Captain Edal. 
EDAL: You will suspend all other work and prepare for an emergency transference. 
SENTA: But that's out of the question. 
EDAL: The order comes directly from Jano. 
SENTA: You are interested in our work? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, interested, yes. Although I disapprove of your activities. 
SENTA: I shall be honoured to show you my laboratory when I have the time. Well, where is the savage for transference? 
DOCTOR: No, gentlemen, no, gentlemen. I don't wish to bear witness. 
EDAL: It's quite all right, Doctor. You will not be asked to witness this experiment. 
DOCTOR: I should hope not, my boy. 
EDAL: Instead you will have the pleasure of participating in it. 
(Behind them, Jano enters the room.) 
DOCTOR: What did you say? 
SENTA: Do you realise what you're saying? We cannot transfer such a high form of life. It's never been done. 
JANO: This time it will be done. It will be an interesting experiment for you. 
SENTA: But, he's a fellow scientist, he's one of us. 
JANO: You have your orders. See that they are carried out. 
DOCTOR: I think you have forgotten one thing, gentlemen. 
JANO: I don't think so, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: My feelings in this matter! I will not submit to your nauseating experiments! I am going out of that door, so don't try to stop me. 
EDAL: Go back, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Let me pass. 
(Edal turns his light gun on the Doctor.) 
SENTA: You two, strap him to the trolley! 
(Caught in the light beam, and powerless to resist, the Doctor is lifted onto a gurney and strapped down.) 
JANO: Report to me as soon as the transference is completed. 
(Jano leaves.) 
SENTA: Take the readings. Open a special file in the computers. We've never done a transference like this before. We'll use channel double A, double one. 
TECH 1: We are ready, Senta. 
SENTA: Very well. Stand by. 
(The Doctor is wheeled into the cubicle.) 
SENTA: All correct. Make the connection. 
(The transparent panels close around the Doctor, shutting him in. The funnel-like device lowers itself gently from the ceiling coming to rest just above his chest.)
SENTA: High input vats? 
TECH 1: High input vats in contact. 
SENTA: Vapourisation. 
TECH 2: Vapourisation on. 
TECH 1: Vapourisation on. 
(The glass cubicle fills with the white gas.) 
SENTA: Prepare for transfer. 
TECH 1: Standing by. 
SENTA: Now remember. We've never done anything like this before. Watch everything very carefully. Let me know the moment there's anything unusual. 
TECH 1: I will, Senta. 
SENTA: Transfer on. 
(In the vats, the bubbles are small and sluggish, barely making any change in the viscous black fluid.) 
SENTA: Call me the readings. 
TECH 1: Point zero one, point zero two, point zero three, point zero six. 
SENTA: Keep it steady. 
TECH 1: Point zero eight. It's impossible. He'll never stand it! 
SENTA: It should be working by now. 
TECH 1: Point one zero. 
SENTA: Come on, come on! It must work! 
TECH 1: Point three zero. 
TECH 2: Vitality dropping fast. 
SENTA: It's no use. We must stop the experiment. 
TECH 1: No, Senta. Look, it's working! 
(There are results in the collection vats at last.) 
SENTA: Energy reaction? 
TECH 2: Seventeen. Constant 
SENTA: It is working. 
TECH 2: Seventeen rising. 
TECH 3: Point seven zero. 
TECH 2: Eighteen. 
SENTA: Take it up a couple of points. 
TECH 2: Nineteen.
SENTA: Two more. 
TECH 2: Twenty. 
SENTA: Wonderful! It's amazing. He must have tremendous strength. 
TECH 2: Twenty one. Twenty two. 
SENTA: Vapourisation is perfect. Everything is working. It's going to be a classic transference. This is our greatest success. 
TECH 1: One point five zero. 
(The glass collection vats bubble furiously and the thick black liquid begins to clear. Unconscious in the cubicle, the Doctor is utterly helpless as the life force is drawn out of him.) 
TECH 2: Twenty five. 
TECH 1: Two point five zero.

Episode 3

[Control room]

TECH 1: Five point one. Zero. Five point six. Zero. Six point one. Zero. Six point seven. Zero. Seven point one. Zero. 
SENTA: Adjust resistance pressure. What's the resistance reading? 
TECH 1: Negative. 
SENTA: Vitality's dropping. Watch it carefully. Adjust cutout at twenty five. Don't reduce any lower or he may not recover. 
(Jano enters.) 
JANO: Senta! Your message was passed on to me. You are to be congratulated. 
SENTA: It's a perfect transfer. 
JANO: Remarkable. How is the Doctor? 
SENTA: Reduced nervous tension of course, but in good condition. Given time he will recover, and like the others, we'll be able to use him again. 
JANO: You realise what this means, Senta. If we are able to achieve this transfer successfully, we will be able to do the same with the other time travellers. 
SENTA: The young man and the girl. 
JANO: As it is, they are a danger to us, but as a source of energy they could be of great value. Captain Edal. Send out patrols. The two young people who arrived with the Doctor must be brought in.

[Valley]

(The savages take Steven and Dodo to a narrow valley bounded on each side by steep rock walls. On their arrival, a number gather threateningly around Steven.) 
CHAL: Leave him. We have brought you here only for your safety. 
STEVEN: What have you done for the Doctor? 
CHAL: We can do nothing for him. 
STEVEN: If you don't fight them, you'll always suffer. 
CHAL: Obviously you have never faced the light guns. 
STEVEN: What is this place? Why have we come here? 
CHAL: To hide. That is where we live. 
(Chal points to the openings in the rock walls around them.) 
DODO: Caves? You live there? 
CHAL: Yes. 
STEVEN: Like animals. 
CHAL: Like animals. It is the one place the guards will not follow. Even they hesitate to go into the darkness of those passages. 
TOR: There is news, Chal. The patrols have been sent out. They are searching for the strangers. 
DODO: How do you know they're looking for us? 
TOR: They have not touched any of our people, and they are still hunting. 
STEVEN: Did you hear anything about the Doctor? 
TOR: He will have been used. 
DODO: You mean they put him in that glass cell? Steven, what are we going to do? 
STEVEN: Don't worry, Dodo, we'll find him. 
CHAL: I must warn you, when you do find him he will not be as you remember. They leave us afterwards only a hollow shell of ourselves.

[Laboratory]

JANO: What is his vitality? 
SENTA: It's down to twenty five. We were very careful. 
JANO: And the energy count? 
SENTA: That's high. As a source of energy, his power is remarkably high. 
JANO: And he will recover? 
SENTA: Of course, but it will take time. 
JANO: Very well. And now I wish you to prepare for an in-transference. 
SENTA: So soon? 
JANO: The sooner the better. 
SENTA: You've nominated a number of people to receive part of his life force? 
JANO: No. There will be only one person. 
SENTA: That's most unusual. 
JANO: This is a most unusual experiment, Senta. It would not be right to jeopardise the safety of any other members of the city. I will take full responsibility. 
SENTA: You're going to take the in-transference yourself? 
JANO: Yes. 
SENTA: But Jano, is that wise? Anything might happen. We've never seen the results of such an in-transference before. 
JANO: It is for that reason that I will take the risk. I shall be ready when you need me.

[outside the City]

EDAL: Keep to your own division, Exorse. You're too far over. This is section K4. You should be beyond the scrubland. Go and see if they've tried to reach the Valley of Caves. 
EXORSE: Very good, Captain.

[Valley]

(The valley lookouts spot Exorse approaching.) 
STEVEN: What is it? 
CHAL: A patrol is coming this way. 
TOR: I have warned you. they are looking for you. 
DODO: Will they come here? 
CHAL: Possibly. 
STEVEN: Where can we go? 
TOR: There is no place where you are safe. 
CHAL: Be silent! You will be safe in the caves. 
TOR: No, Chal! You cannot take them into the caves. The guards would follow and then our last refuge would be gone. 
CHAL: They have helped us. We must help them. 
TOR: No! They are not our people. They must not be allowed in the caves. 
CHAL: I am the leader and I say they may go. 
TOR: Very well. Our destruction will be on your hands. 
CHAL: You will remain here. Come with me, quickly. 
(Chal and Wylda lead Steven and Dodo up a narrow path to the caves.

[Cave entrance]

(An unexpectedly wonderful chamber carved out of the rock, with colourful murals decorating the walls.) 
CHAL: Nanina, do not worry. They are friends. 
WYLDA: They helped me. 
DODO: It's beautiful. Like a little temple. 
CHAL: This is where we live. It is the one spot on this island which we can call our own. 
STEVEN: But who's made all this? 
CHAL: Our people have done it. 
STEVEN: It's superb! 
CHAL: Our ancestors were great artists. As time passes, we are less able to do such things. Most of our talents have been taken from us. Only our faith remains, and that they will never take. 
WYLDA: Look out. The patrol is coming.

[Valley]

(Despite the warning, Tor is cornered.) 
EXORSE: Stay where you are. Where are they? 
(He points his light gun at Tor.) 
EXORSE: Next time, I will take you away. I asked you, where are the strangers? 
(Unable to help himself, Tor glances towards the cave.) 
EXORSE: Up there, are they? Right.

[Cave entrance]

NANINA: What is happening? 
CHAL: He is coming this way. 
NANINA: Go back. I will watch. 
EXORSE [OC]: You have the two strangers. Tell them to come here. 
NANINA: There are no strangers. 
STEVEN: Let me see what's going on. 
NANINA: Stay down there! 
STEVEN: How many guards? 
NANINA: There's only one, but he has a gun. 
DODO: What's he doing now? 
NANINA: It's no use. He's coming here.

[Cave]

STEVEN: Isn't there any other way out of this place? 
CHAL: There are the passages but they don't lead anywhere. 
DODO: You mean we're trapped? 
CHAL: No, no, no. They will give us a chance. There are many passages and he may not know which one to follow. Come with me. 
(Exorse hesitates outside the cave.) 
EXORSE [OC]: This is an order. Bring out the strangers. I know they are there. 
(Chal leads Dodo and Steven deeper into the rock, past several openings to a tunnel at the very back of the cave.) 
STEVEN: What will happen to him? 
CHAL: They can do no worse than they have done before. 
DODO: We don't want to bring any more suffering on your people. 
EXORSE [OC]: Very well, I will come and get them myself. 
CHAL: Quickly! This way. 
(Steven and Dodo follow Chal into the tunnel.) 
EXORSE: The strangers, girl, where are they? Tell me or you will suffer. 
NANINA: I will tell you nothing. 
EXORSE: After I find them, I shall teach you to obey. 
(Exorse moves inside, sweeping his light gun across the huddled savages cowering against the walls.) 
EXORSE: Where are they? Very well. I shall take you back in their place. 
NANINA: Don't talk. 
SAVAGE: They have gone into the face of the rock! 
(In the passage, Dodo's foot catches a loose stone and the sound echoes.) 
STEVEN: Shhh! 
(Exorse looks into each opening, but cannot work out which tunnel the others have taken. Nanina tries to get between Exorse and his victim.) 
EXORSE: Which opening? Which opening? Get back! 
(The man points to the correct passage.) 
NANINA: You have betrayed them. 
SAVAGE: But he would have taken me. 
(Exorse heads off down the dark tunnel.)

[Tunnel]

DODO: Where does this lead to? 
CHAL: Only further into the rocks. 
DODO: There's no way out? 
CHAL: No. 
DODO: Listen. 
STEVEN: I don't hear anything. 
CHAL: I'm not sure. Come on. 
(All are now aware of footsteps and the whine of the light gun behind them.) 
DODO: Isn't there any place to hide? 
CHAL: Shh. Remember the echo. 
STEVEN: But she's right though. We don't stand a chance if all the passages are as narrow as this. 
CHAL: I can promise nothing, but he may not follow. 
STEVEN: How much more of this passage is there? 
CHAL: Very little, but it is our only chance. 
EXORSE [OC]: I know you are there, strangers. There is no escape for you. It will be better for you if you turn back now. 
DODO: It's no good, Steven. 
EXORSE [OC]: Do you hear me? 
STEVEN: What's that? 
CHAL: It is the last bend. After that, there is nothing. 
STEVEN: Go on.

[Cave]

TOR: Where are they now? 
WYLDA: They've gone into the rock. 
TOR: And the guard? 
NANINA: He has followed. He showed him the way. 
TOR: Chal should not have brought the strangers here. They will punish all of us. 
NANINA: But the strangers helped us. 
TOR: What good is that if they make the leaders angry?

[Tunnel]

(Reaching a dead end, Steven, Dodo and Chal crouch in the gloom.) 
EXORSE [OC]: Come back, strangers. There is no escape. 
STEVEN: Then come and get us. 
CHAL: He knows we are here 
STEVEN: If I can get him angry, he might do something rash. Come on, soldier boy, what are you frightened of? You've got the gun. 
CHAL: He will destroy us all. 
STEVEN: How will he do that? 
CHAL: With the gun. 
STEVEN: Tell me, how will he use it? 
CHAL: What does it matter. 
STEVEN: Hurry up, I've got to know. Tell me, how does it work? 
CHAL: They shine the liquid light beam on us and we cannot move. 
STEVEN: Does the beam reflect? 
CHAL: How do you mean? 
STEVEN: If the light from the gun reflects, does it still work? 
CHAL: Yes, yes, I've seen it from the water of the lake. 
STEVEN: Quick, Dodo, give me that mirror. Now come on, get on the floor, both of you. 
CHAL: It's no use! 
EXORSE [OC]: You are foolish to think you can defy me. Have the people of the caves not told you? You cannot resist us. 
STEVEN: We're going to change all that, soldier boy. Come on, what are you frightened of? 
EXORSE: The travellers from beyond time are indeed foolish people. 
(He fires his light gun along the tunnel wall as Exorse advances.) 
STEVEN: Keep down! 
CHAL: Don't let it shine on you. Don't let it touch your eyes. 
STEVEN: Quiet. 
DODO: It's coming closer.
EXORSE [OC]: Now do you understand, strangers? We are masters. 
CHAL: We must go. We must obey. 
STEVEN: Hold him, Dodo. Hang on to him. This might just work. 
CHAL: It is useless, stranger. 
STEVEN: Well done, Dodo. Now for it. 
EXORSE [OC]: I will give you no more orders. You will step into the light. 
(Steven thrusts Dodo's mirror into the path of the ray and the light beam reflects directly back into Exorse's face. He freezes and drops the light gun. Steven snatches up the weapon, turning it on its owner.) 
STEVEN: Right. Now turn. Back along the passage. Come on, move. 
CHAL: He has taken the guard prisoner. It is impossible.

[Cave]

NANINA: They're coming back. 
TOR: We should not have angered him. What will happen to us? He has taken them prisoners. 
NANINA: It's the guard! 
TOR: He has the gun. 
NANINA: We're safe. 
STEVEN: Right, tie him up. Make him a prisoner. 
TOR: You can destroy the people of the city. They can destroy our enemies. The strangers must be gods.

[Control room]

TECH 1: Are we to release him into the outer world as with the others? 
SENTA: He is not one of the savages. He couldn't look after himself. No, he will be kept here. The Elders intended to give him the guest apartments. He must be taken there. Assist him. Treat him with great care. He is most valuable to us. 
TECH 1: I understand, Senta.

[Senta's laboratory]

JANO: You are ready? 
SENTA: Yes. I've sent my assistants away. 
JANO: You are right. It is most important that we keep this in-transference secret until we know the results. I don't wish to alarm anyone. 
SENTA: Shall we begin? 
JANO: I am ready. 
(Senta guides Jano to the in-transference booth, a recess partitioned off by a glass panel. The panel slides aside and Jano steps through. The booth contains an odd-looking chair which is connected to banks of complex equipment. Jano connects electrodes to his temples and over his heart. He's done this before. A cylindrical helmet mounted on a pivoted arm lowers onto his head.) 
SENTA: May all go well. I shall switch on when you give me the signal. 
(Jano immediately signals his readiness, and Senta closes the glass panel, sealing Jano inside the booth. Senta switches on the machinery, and the huge vats start to bubble and churn. The clear liquid within them begins to turn cloudy, fading first to grey and then darkening to black. The cubicle where Jano sits begins to fill with gas. Senta checks the readings and makes slight adjustments. Everything seems to be going well.)

[Cave]

TOR: We should kill him while we have the chance. 
STEVEN: He's more use to us alive. 
TOR: They have killed many of our people. It will be justice. 
NANINA: Leave him. 
TOR: Why do you pity him, Nanina? This is the guard that took you. Think what they do even now to the old man. 
STEVEN: And if we're quick we may still be able to help the Doctor.. 
TOR: It is too late. There is nothing we can 
CHAL: Be silent! What do you wish us to do? 
STEVEN: Show us how to get into the city. 
CHAL: There is a way, but it is dangerous. It is always guarded. 
STEVEN: I can handle the guards with this. Just show me how to get in. 
NANINA: And once you're in? 
STEVEN: Dodo and I can find the Doctor. 
CHAL: Do you know where he is? 
DODO: We were supposed to go to the guest apartments. 
NANINA: It will not be possible. 
STEVEN: We must try. 
CHAL: Very well, I will show you. But we must hurry. 
STEVEN: Guard your prisoner. Make sure he doesn't get away. 
NANINA: Good luck go with you. 
(Chal leaves with Steven and Dodo.) 
TOR: The safest way to deal with him is to kill him now. 
(Tor swings a club at Exorse.) 
NANINA: You heard what Chal said! I shall call him back! 
(Tor throws down the club again and goes away to sulk.) 
NANINA: Has he hurt you? 
EXORSE: Not much. 
NANINA: Let me see. I shall make sure it is clean. 
EXORSE: You're the girl I brought into the laboratory. 
NANINA: Yes. 
EXORSE: Why did you stop him? 
NANINA: It would do no good to kill you. 
EXORSE: What is your name? 
NANINA: Nanina. 
EXORSE: I shall remember.

[outside the City]

(Hiding in undergrowth, they watch a guard at his post.) 
CHAL: The entrance is there. It opens into a passage which leads to the laboratory. 
STEVEN: Can you be sure? 
CHAL: Oh, yes. It is the way we leave when they have taken our strength away. 
DODO: Get down. 
(The guard sits down by the door, and placing his light gun on the ground at his feet, begins to eat some fruit.) 
STEVEN: He doesn't look as though he expected trouble. 
CHAL: Our people have been oppressed for so long the guards have grown careless. 
STEVEN: All right, we'll make use of that. How close in do I have to go before this becomes effective? 
CHAL: Just a little further. 
STEVEN: Right. You two stay here. 
(Steven creeps forward. The guard hears noises.) 
GUARD: Hello, there? Is that you, Exorse? 
(Too late, the startled guard scrambles for his weapon. Steven fires his light gun.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, Chal! 
(The guard goes rigid and drops to the ground.) 
STEVEN: Get his gun. 
CHAL: Switch off your light. 
DODO: He's flat out. 
CHAL: The light must have hit his eyes. It is as if he was struck by a club. He will be like this for a long time. 
STEVEN: How do we open the door? 
CHAL: It's simple. 
(Chal steps forward to break a light beam across the entrance, and the door slides open.) 
STEVEN: Right. Chal, take this fellow up into the bushes. We don't want anyone to find him here. Then wait for us. 
CHAL: What will you do? 
STEVEN: Dodo and I are going inside. 
(Dodo takes the light gun dropped by the guard, and she and Steven move cautiously through the doorway.)

[Laboratory]

SENTA: In-transference completed. Pressure restored. Are you all right, Jano? Jano! 
(The glass panel slides back but the gas still obscures Jano.) 
SENTA: Jano? 
(Senta is concerned. He checks dials and adjusts some controls. The helmet lifts from Jano's head but he continues to sit motionless. Finally Jano becomes aware of his surroundings.) 
SENTA: Are you all right, Jano? 
(Jano appears distracted. He stands and gazes around the room, chin held high.) 
SENTA: For a moment I was afraid that 
JANO: Hmm? What's all the fuss about? I'm quite all right. The trouble with you people on this planet is that you don't 
SENTA: What do you mean, Jano? You belong to this planet. You're one of us. 
JANO: One of? Yes, yes of course. I'm afraid I'm not quite myself. 
SENTA: I understand. You must rest, Jano. I shall give instructions that you're not to be disturbed. 
JANO: Hmm! An excellent idea. After an experience like that, one takes time to become adjusted. I suppose my two young friends 
SENTA: Avon and Flower? 
JANO: Good gracious, no, no, no. Steven and Dodo, the child with the ridiculous name. 
SENTA: The strangers? 
JANO: Oh, strangers to you, perhaps, but I have known them both for 
(The leader is obviously discomposed. He stares around, trying to make sense of his surroundings.) 
JANO: Yes, yes, of course. The strangers. 
SENTA: I will leave you, Jano. 
(Senta leaves, and Jano eyes the machinery with disgust.) 
JANO: Hmm! So, I'm in this dreadful place, am I? Well, I'll soon do something about their equipment. 
(Snatching up a hefty measuring rod, Jano raises it above his head, preparing to smash the instruments. Then he freezes, his brow creasing in confusion. The rod falls from his grasp.) 
JANO: What's happened to me? What's happened to me?

[Corridor]

(Steven and Dodo make their way along the metal corridor deeper into the city complex.) 
DODO: Steven, there's something wrong. It shouldn't be so easy to get in. 
STEVEN: Chal and his people will be too terrified to break in. 
DODO: Surely they should have some security? 
STEVEN: Maybe they thought one guard was enough.

[Control room]

(Edal and Senta are watching every move Steven and Dodo make on the monitors.) 
EDAL: They're not going to give us much trouble. Just a little bit further and they'll have no chance to get back. 
SENTA: It looks as though they're stopping.

[Corridor]

DODO: Steven, there's something strange. I don't want to go on. 
STEVEN: It's our only chance. We've got to find the Doctor. 
DODO: Listen.

[Control room]

EDAL: We just have to coax them in a little.
(Edal reaches for a microphone.) 
EDAL: Hello, guest apartment control. Captain Edal speaking. Conduct time traveller number one to the end of emergency corridor U3.

[Senta's laboratory]

(Jano also hears the announcement.) 
EDAL [OC]: You are to leave the Doctor there by himself. Take him there immediately. This is urgent.

[Corridor]

DODO: This is the corridor I was in before. There's a T junction just ahead. 
STEVEN: Can we get into the laboratory that way? 
DODO: Yes. 
STEVEN: Come on. 
DODO: All right.

[Control room]

GUARD [OC]: Time traveller number one in position. 
EDAL: Good. Release him. Stay out of sight until I give the signal.

[Corridor]

DODO: Here's the T junction all right. (groan) There's someone there! 
STEVEN: Yes, you're right. Stand by. 
(Clutching their light guns, Dodo and Steven turn the corner.) 
STEVEN + DODO: Doctor! 
DODO: Oh, it's wonderful to see you. 
STEVEN: Doctor, are you all right? How did you get here? 
DODO: Why doesn't he answer? 
STEVEN: Are you all right, Doctor? (groan) Come on. We're going to get you out of this place. 
DODO: He's not moving. Steven, give him a hand. 
(Steven and Dodo take an arm each and guide the Doctor back along the corridor. Edal watches from the control room. He leans forward and presses a button.) 
STEVEN: What was that? 
DODO: The door! 
(Ahead, a door begins to slide shut, blocking their escape route.) 
STEVEN: Dodo, quickly! 
(Together, Steven and Dodo struggle to hold the door open.) 
STEVEN: Doctor, come on now. You can get through! 
DODO: Steven, I can't hold on much longer. 
STEVEN: Doctor! Doctor! 
(The Doctor stands motionless. They've no choice but to allow the door to slide closed.) 
DODO: What have they done to you?

[Control room]

EDAL: Guards to emergency corridor U3. Use destructive vapours as protection against the light guns. Move up behind.

[Corridor]

DODO: Look! 
(Ahead a swirling cloud of gas is rolling slowly towards them.) 
STEVEN: There's someone behind it! 
(Steven fires his light gun into the vapour.) 
DODO: That's no good, Steven. We've got to get out of here. 
(Steven desperately seeks a way to trigger the door mechanism.) 
DODO: Oh, quickly, Steven. It's getting nearer. 
(As the choking cloud billows around them, Jano enters the now-empty control room and watches the scene unfold on the monitor.) 
DODO: I can't see anything. 
STEVEN: We've got to go through it, Dodo. 
DODO: I can't. 
(Dodo reels back, gasping for breath. As armed guards wearing face masks close in, Steven fights for air, hammering desperately on the door.) 
STEVEN: Come on, Dodo. 
DODO: I can't. 
(Behind them the Doctor stands immobile, apparently oblivious to the chaos around him.)

Episode 4

[Corridor]

STEVEN: It's no good, Dodo. I'm sorry. 
DODO: Help me, Steven. This stuff is choking me. 
EDAL: Throw the light guns into the vapour. 
STEVEN: No, don't, Dodo! 
DODO: Steven, I can't breathe. Do as he says. 
(Dodo throws down her gun.) 
STEVEN: You fool! 
EDAL: The other light gun. Throw it immediately. 
DODO: Steven, give him the gun.

[Control room]

(Watching on a monitor.) 
JANO: No, don't, my boy. Don't give it to them. 
(As if of its own accord, Jano's hand reaches for the control panel beside him.)

[Corridor]

DODO: Steven, look! The doors are opening. 
STEVEN: Quick, Dodo. Get the Doctor out! 
DODO: What about you? 
STEVEN: Do as I say. Don't worry about me. 
DODO: Come on, Doctor. 
STEVEN: Come on. Right, now you get back! 
(Steven fires his light gun, forcing the guards to retreat.) 
SENTA: What happened? Did they escape? 
EDAL: Who opened the doors? 
(Edal rushes back towards the control room. Jano takes his finger off the door button. As the vapour clears, Steven retreats into the safety of the scrubland as the door slides closed.) 
SENTA: Someone has helped the strangers to escape. Give the alarm!

[Control room]

EDAL: You! You opened the doors. 
JANO: Don't be ridiculous, young man. Why would I do that? You seem to forget that I am in charge here. Why would I do anything to help our enemies? 
EDAL: Well, no, but if you didn't do it 
JANO: If? Kindly remember to whom you are speaking. I am. (pause) Get back to your work, Captain. 
EDAL: What about the strangers? You want us to go after them? 
JANO: The strangers? Oh yes. Yes, instruct B Patrol to make ready. 
EDAL: I'll take charge of them myself. 
JANO: No, Captain, you will not. I will lead the patrol.

[Scrubland]

(Steven and Dodo are struggling to carry the Doctor between them.) 
DODO: Doctor, please. You must try to go on. Oh, please try. Is there any sign? 
STEVEN: No, not yet, but they're bound to be following. 
DODO: Oh come on, Doctor. Come on. 
STEVEN: It's no good. 
DODO: Doesn't he care what happens? 
STEVEN: He doesn't even know. 
DODO: Look out! 
STEVEN: It's all right, it's Chal. 
CHAL: How did you get him away? I did not think it was possible. 
DODO: Look at the state he's in. 
CHAL: Yes, I've seen many of our people like that. That is how they leave us. 
STEVEN: Will he recover? 
CHAL: Yes, but it takes time. 
STEVEN: Where can we hide him, Chal? 
CHAL: No place is safe, but it's best to take him to the caves. 
(The sound of a light gun.) 
STEVEN: Quickly, they're right behind us. Chal, you and Dodo, get the Doctor to the caves. I'll try and hold them back. 
DODO: But what can you do? 
STEVEN: I can delay them for a little while. Now, go on. You're going to need all the time you can get. 
DODO: Good luck, Steven. 
(Chal and Dodo move off with the Doctor, and Steven takes cover.)

[Ridge over the scrubland]

(Jano and Edal lead a party of four guards. Edal is very suspicious of Jano.) 
JANO: That way. The strangers may have done one of two things, Captain. They may have tried to get back to their spaceship, or they may have gone on to the Valley of Caves. I suggest we split up. Take two men and see if the strangers have tried to reach their machine. I will go on to the Valley. 
EDAL: You two, guard the strangers' space machine. 
JANO: You are not going with them? 
EDAL: I will come with you, Jano. I think you may need my help. 
JANO: Very well. 
(Jano leads and Edal follows with the two guards.)

[Scrubland]

(Steven watches the group come into view and takes careful aim with the light gun. Catching sight of movement ahead, Edal grabs Jano and drags him under cover.) 
EDAL: Look out! 
JANO: How dare 
(Just as Steven fires. His beam hits one of the guards squarely in the eyes, knocking him out.) 
EDAL: The strangers! Just one of them. He's over there behind those rocks. We'll have to split up and work round the side of him. You take that side, and I'll take this. Jano, you can watch him from here. 
JANO: Right. 
(Steven realises that he's outnumbered and out manoeuvred, and as the guard's light gun plays across the rocks above him he crawls away back into the bushes and out of sight.)

[near the Valley]

DODO: Will Steven be all right? 
CHAL: Who can tell? He is a brave man. 
DODO: Are we nearly there? 
CHAL: It's not far to the Valley of the Caves. 
DODO: If only the Doctor would move faster. 
CHAL: You must understand he's not himself. It's as though he were asleep still. Help him. Do not be angry with him. 
DODO: I'm sorry.

[Scrubland]

(Edal and the guards circle around, closing in on Steven's hiding place, only to discover that there is no one there. Jano hurries over to them while from his new hiding place Steven takes aim.) 
JANO: What happened? 
EDAL: He's not here. He's playing for time. The longer he can delay us, the more chance they've got of getting the Doctor to the caves. 
JANO: Look out, Edal! 
(Sound of a light gun.) 
EDAL: Come on! 
(As Edal and Jano move away, Steven takes aim once more. He fires, then beats a hasty retreat.

[Valley]

DODO: Chal, we've done it! There's your cave. 
CHAL: What are my people doing? There is no guard.

[Cave]

(Nanina takes water to Exorse, who is tied up in one corner.) 
NANINA: Drink this. 
EXORSE: Thank you. 
NANINA: Let me see your head. 
EXORSE: I'm all right. 
TOR: It's a pity I didn't kill him when I had the chance. People of his kind must be destroyed if there is to be any hope for the rest of us. 
NANINA: We will not save ourselves that way, Tor. 
TOR: You hear her? Nanina protects our enemies. This is a dangerous man. What do we do, let him go so he may attack us again? Or do we get rid of our enemies to help ourselves? 
NANINA: Chal is our leader. He and the strangers have given us orders that this man is not to be hurt. 
TOR: I never trust the strangers, and Chal is not here. 
NANINA: All right, Tor. I am here. 
TOR: You would fight for this man, Nanina? How can an enemy mean so much? 
CHAL [OC]: Tor, where are you? 
NANINA: It's Chal! 
CHAL [OC]: Where's the guard? 
(Nanina runs outside.)

[outside the Cave]

CHAL: Help him. 
NANINA: Where is the other stranger? 
CHAL: He will come.

[Scrubland]

(Steven breaks cover and makes a run for the valley. He's spotted by the guard. Dodging the beams, he unwittingly places himself in Jano's line of fire. Jano raises his light gun, then hesitates. Steven disappears from sight as Edal arrives.) 
EDAL: How did he get away? 
JANO: You must ask your guards. 
EDAL: We will be too late. They will be in the valley by now.

[Valley]

(The Doctor is being helped up the path when they hear someone running towards them.) 
DODO: There's someone coming! It's Steven. 
STEVEN: Get him inside, quick! They're right behind me. 
EDAL: There they are. Fire! 
(Steven takes up a defensive position at the cave mouth and fires on the patrol.) 
STEVEN: Get him into the back of the cave, quick, and give him some of those capsules. 
DODO: Which capsules? 
STEVEN: Those that we gave to the savage. 
DODO: Yes, I forgot. 
(Chal and Tor join Steven outside the cave, watching as the patrol enters the valley.) 
STEVEN: Somebody's moving. 
CHAL: It's their leader, Jano. 
(Jano is climbing down into the valley, apparently oblivious to the danger he's in. As they watch he stumbles and falls to the ground.) 
TOR: Quickly, fire now. Shoot! 
(Suddenly the Doctor knocks Steven's light gun aside.) 
DOCTOR: Not at Jano. 
STEVEN: Doctor, what are you doing? 
DOCTOR: You must not harm Jano. 
TOR: But he is their leader. 
DOCTOR: Please carry out my instructions, and do not harm Jano. 
(Below them, two of Edal's guards hurry forward and help Jano to safety.) 
TOR: It is too late now. 
CHAL: Yes. Take him down. 
DODO: Doctor.

[Cave]

STEVEN: Here, take this. Go on, take it! 
(Steven passes a light gun to Tor.) 
STEVEN: Don't use it unless you have to. 
DODO: Are you all right, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think so, my dear. I must have fallen into some kind of a coma. It was as though, as though all my powers were being sapped. 
CHAL: You have let their leader escape. 
DOCTOR: Where am I? Where am I? 
STEVEN: These are the cave dwellings where Chal and his people live. 
DODO: We've got to get back to the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: No. No, my dear, no, no, we can't leave yet. No, we've got a lot of work to do. 
STEVEN: Work? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I don't intend to leave these people in this oppressed state. 
STEVEN: Well, you're never going to convince the elders that Chal and his people should be treated like human beings. 
DOCTOR: Yes, you're probably right, my boy. I shan't even try. 
CHAL: Well what are you going to do? 
DOCTOR: I am going to destroy the power that they hold over you. 
STEVEN: Destroy the laboratory? 
DOCTOR: Yes, precisely. 
STEVEN: But how are we going to get in? They'll be waiting for us this time. 
DOCTOR: All we need is one friend from the other side. 
NANINA: But that is not possible. 
DOCTOR: I think we have him already, my dear.

[Valley]

JANO: It is getting dark. I want you to return to the city. 
EDAL: Leave you here alone? 
JANO: Yes. I shall be all right. 
EDAL: I can't do that. I refuse to. 
JANO: I am still your leader, Edal, and this is an order. Tell Senta and the elders that I shall return with the strangers as prisoners. 
EDAL: I obey, under protest. 
[Cave entrance]

STEVEN: They've gone. 
DOCTOR: All of them? 
STEVEN: It's hard to tell. It's too dark. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you will find they've left one behind. 
STEVEN: I'll stay on guard. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, there's no need to, my boy. 
CHAL: You speak in riddles. You say they have left one behind, but we do not need a guard? I, I 
DOCTOR: That is correct. We'll wait until it's dark, and then I think we shall have a visitor.

[Laboratory]

SENTA: But you shouldn't have left him there, Edal. 
EDAL: I was forced to. He's acting very strangely. He's not at all himself. 
SENTA: Are you sure? 
EDAL: Jano has changed. 
SENTA: That's a dangerous accusation to make. 
(Senta is interrupted as several of the Council of Elders arrive.) 
SENTA: Dare you repeat it in front of them? 
EDAL: I was ordered to return here by Jano. Elders, I believe we are about to be betrayed.

[Cave]

(Night falls in the valley. The Doctor, Dodo and Steven are gathered with the savages around a smoky fire, listening, waiting. It's not very long before they hear someone climbing up the cliff path outside.) 
DODO: There's someone coming. 
(Steven draws his gun.) 
DOCTOR: There's no need for that, my boy. 
STEVEN: Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Shush, shush, shush, shush. 
JANO [OC]: Don't be alarmed. Is the Doctor there? 
CHAL: It is Jano. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I am here, Jano. We were expecting you. 
(As Jano enters the cave the savages shrink away.) 
DOCTOR: Tell your people they are quite safe, Chal. Jano comes as a friend. 
CHAL: Do not be afraid. We must trust this man. 
JANO: How do you know that I come as a friend? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear Jano, it wasn't difficult. I knew you were to undergo the in-transference yourself. 
JANO: You knew that? 
DOCTOR: Yes, an unknown experiment. And you're not the type of man to allow others to take risks. 
JANO: You're right, Doctor. And now tell me, what has happened to me? 
DOCTOR: It's all very simple. You wanted my intellect. You got it, and along with it, you received a little conscience. 
STEVEN: Conscience? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. You see, Jano is now saddled with the sense of right and wrong, which makes him an explosive element in a civilisation such as his. 
STEVEN: Is this true? 
JANO: It must be. All I know is that since the experiment I have not been sure of myself. I have grown aware of the evil that we have done and I am determined to end it. 
CHAL: You are going to help us? 
JANO: Yes. 
TOR: Your friends would never agree. 
JANO: I know. I will not try to persuade them. 
DOCTOR: Jano has another plan. 
JANO: How did you know, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I think it's like mine. 
(Ignored by the others, Exorse has worked to free himself.) 
CHAL: Hold him! 
(Exorse sprints to the cave mouth. Steven fires too late. Exorse disappears into the darkness.) 
STEVEN: He's gone. 
TOR: If he gets back, that will be the end of your fine plan. 
DOCTOR: We must take that chance. 
(Nanina runs from the cave.) 
TOR: Nanina!

[Scrubland]

(Exorse is making his way cautiously. Hearing sounds, he picks up a heavy branch and swings it, just missing Nanina.) 
EXORSE: Why did you follow? 
NANINA: If you betray Jano, what will become of us? 
EXORSE: It is Jano who is the traitor. 
NANINA: What have you learnt, Exorse? That we are people like yourselves. What chance will we ever have if you speak. 
EXORSE: You think I can keep silent about what I've heard? 
NANINA: You owe me your life, Exorse. I have a right to ask you. If you are against us now, you condemn us forever. 
(Exorse goes on his way, leaving Nanina alone.)

[Laboratory]

SENTA: I promised Jano that I would tell no-one about the in-transference, but now I must. It appears that Jano has absorbed dangerous ideas from the Doctor. What can we do? 
EDAL: We can no longer trust Jano. He is not fit to lead us. I will take command. Declare an emergency. We must be ready for Jano. 
(Exorse enters.)

[Cave]

JANO: Everyone must do as I command. You too, Doctor. No one will turn back. And now we must move.

[Laboratory]

EDAL: You were a prisoner in the cave? 
EXORSE: That is correct. 
EDAL: Jano. I left him there alone. He had some plan. 
EXORSE: I did not see him. 
SENTA: According to Captain Edal, Jano is no longer to be trusted. He has gone over to the savages.

[outside the City]

JANO: Come on, get a move on there. Come on, get along. 
(The Doctor leads, with Dodo, Steven, Chal, Nanina and Tor following. Behind them are several other savages and directing them all, forcing them ahead with a light gun, is Jano. He uses the weapon like a whip, herding his prisoners forward, shouting and cursing.) 
JANO: Come on.

[Laboratory]

EDAL: Are you sure, Exorse, you have nothing further to report? 
EXORSE: Nothing, Captain. 
EDAL: Strange, very strange. We'll see what the interrogators can get out of you. 
EXORSE: Only the leader has the right to send citizens to the interr 
SENTA: Captain Edal has called an emergency. He has taken over the leadership in the absence of Jano. 
JANO: In the absence of Jano? 
SENTA: We did not expect you back here. 
JANO: Why not? Did I not say that I would be back with prisoners. Bring in the strangers. 
(The line of prisoners is brought in under guard.) 
SENTA: So you were wrong, Edal. Captain Edal informed us that you had gone over to the enemy, Jano. He has tried to take your place. 
JANO: Put the Captain under arrest. Both of you. 
EDAL: I demand to be heard. 
JANO: You will be heard at the right time and place. Take him away. 
(Edal is escorted from the room by two guards.) 
SENTA: We apologise, Jano. We thought that something had happened to you during the in-transference. 
JANO: Seal off the doors. 
SENTA: Are we to prepare these savages for transference? 
JANO: Seal off the doors. 
SENTA: What's happening? I insist upon knowing. 
JANO: You will find what I going to say very difficult to understand. All the Elders of our city are here, and so is the source of our supremacy on this planet. No man easily gives up the means which give him power. 
SENTA: I don't understand you, Jano. 
JANO: That is what I am asking you to do. I want you to destroy all this. 
SENTA: What? The laboratory? The generators? 
JANO: All the machinery which we have used to destroy our fellows. 
SENTA: They are not our fellows, Jano. They are the savages. They are not capable of development like us. 
JANO: How do you know? 
SENTA: All history proves it. The savages are good only to provide us with energy. The laboratory must not be destroyed. 
JANO: These people whom you call savages are our equals. What we have done to them is wrong. If you will not destroy all this, then I must. 
(Jano picks up a metal bar and smashes it down on the control panel next to him.) 
SENTA: What are you doing? Stop him! 
(Senta dives for the alarm button.) 
JANO: This is our only chance to start life afresh on this planet. Help me! 
SENTA: Well, don't just stand there! Use your gun. 
NANINA: Help, Exorse. It's the only way to help us all. 
(Exorse turns to smash the nearest console.) 
EDAL: Open the doors! We cannot get in. 
(Trapped outside, Edal and his guards try to break down the door. This fuels the savages desire to destroy the laboratory. They turn on the equipment with an enthusiasm to wreck it as thoroughly and quickly as possible. Several of the Elders try to intervene, but they are no match for them.) 
DOCTOR: You know, my dear, there's something very satisfying in destroying something that's evil, don't you think? 
DODO: Yes! 
(Senta is powerless. The vats are smashed, the energy transfer process ended forever.) 
JANO: This is only the beginning, Chal. After this destruction, our people must learn to build a world that they can both live in. 
CHAL: And both sides must learn to trust each other. 
JANO: We may need a new leader. Somebody who can unite us. 
EDAL [OC]: Make sure the strangers don't escape. It is they who have done this to us! Kill the Doctor on sight. These are my orders! 
(The door gives way and the guards swarm into the room.) 
EDAL: Get Jano! Arrest him. 
(The light beam misses its target and Steven stands to face Edal.) 
STEVEN: Stay where you are! What can you do now? The place is destroyed. Your power's gone. 
EDAL: You! I should have killed you a long time ago. And you, Doctor. You have done this to us. 
JANO: Edal, you have no more authority here. 
EDAL: You. You are a traitor. I do not take orders from traitors! 
STEVEN: Drop it! 
(Edal goes to fire but Steven is quicker. Edal falls unconscious, caught in the blast of Steven's light gun.) 
JANO: Doctor, we already owe you much. (to Steven) And now I owe you my life. 
DOCTOR: Jano, since you have destroyed the power you held over Chal and his people, you realise now of course, you've got to learn to live together. 
JANO: Yes, but the fear and hatred of the past will only die slowly. We need someone like yourself as a mediator until we have become one people. 
DOCTOR: I see. But in my case I'm afraid that is utterly impossible. 
JANO: The man we need must inspire trust. His judgements must come from his heart, even more than his head. 
CHAL: Here is the leader we want, Jano. 
JANO: This is what I thought. 
STEVEN: Just a minute. I couldn't. 
DOCTOR: A great honour, dear boy. 
STEVEN: But I can't walk out on you and Dodo! 
DOCTOR: Just think of the challenge to be able to set up the people of this planet for a new life. You're quite ready for this task. 
STEVEN: You think I can do it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I do. And you're the only man who can, my boy. 
STEVEN: Has the offer come from both sides? 
CHAL: You would give us new hope. Our people will become great again. We will learn to live as equals without bitterness. 
STEVEN: What about Tor? 
TOR: I should accept your decisions. 
STEVEN: Very well. I will stay. 
CHAL: Thank you, thank you. (to the Doctor) And thank you. You have justified our faith. 
(Dodo hugs Steven.) 
DODO: Oh, Steven. 
STEVEN: I shall miss you both, Dodo. 
DODO: I shall miss you. 
JANO: Doctor, for many light years we looked forward to your arrival on this planet. We always knew of your wisdom, but we never dreamed of the miracle that it would bring us. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, Jano. And if ever you need the benefit of my wisdom again, I trust and hope you will allow me to express myself with my own free will, rather than place me in an oven, and try and cook it out of me. 
JANO: Come, Chal, we must summon our people. There is much work to be done. We shall await you in our Council Chamber. 
(Jano and Chal lead the others away, leaving Steven alone with Dodo and the Doctor.) 
DOCTOR: Well, I must say, young man, I'm very proud of you. 
STEVEN: Doctor, I don't know if I 
DOCTOR: I know, I know, my boy. Well, go on, you mustn't keep them waiting. 
STEVEN: Goodbye, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye, Steven, and good luck. 
(Steven leaves.) 
DODO: Doctor, do you think we'll ever see him again? 
DOCTOR: Well, who knows, my dear. In this strange complex of time and space, anything can happen. Come along, little one. We must go. We mustn't look back. 
(The Doctor and Dodo cross the scrubland to the Tardis, and it dematerialises.)

[Fitzroy Square, London]

(The Tardis materialises on a pavement, startling the pigeons. The Doctor and Dodo come out and he hangs an 'Out of Order' sign on the Tardis door. A policeman is walking along the street.) 
DOCTOR: Well, I suppose you know where you are, my dear. 
DODO: London. Home. It's marvellous to be back. It seems ages since I left. 
DOCTOR: Oh, when you've seen the ages that I've see, you won't use that term quite so freely. Anyway, I don't think it's been all that long. 
DODO: Hey, what's that for? 
DOCTOR: Oh, well, you see, the problem is, coming back to the twentieth century, my dear, the Tardis, I'm afraid, is often mistaken for the real police box. 
(The policeman reads the sign and walks on.) 
DODO: I see what you mean. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and fortunately he can't get in. 
DODO: If only he could. Scotland Yard whipped off into time and space. 
DOCTOR: So that's it! 
DODO: What? Oh, the tower. It's finished! 
(The brand new Post Office Tower rises high above central London.) 
DOCTOR: Isn't that interesting. Very interesting. 
DODO: It's great, isn't it. Stephen would have liked it here. 
DOCTOR: You know there's something alien about that tower. I can sense it. 
DODO: Smells okay to me. Good old London smoke. 
DOCTOR: I can feel it's got something sort of powerful. It's. Look at my skin. Look at that. I've got that pricking sensation again, the same. Just as I had when I saw the Daleks, those Daleks were near. 
DODO: Daleks? Who are they? 
DOCTOR: Oh, er, yes, of course, you, er, you didn't meet them, did you, child? No. No, and I pray that you never will. I really must investigate it. 
(The Doctor and Dodo set off for Cleveland Street.)

[Brett's laboratory]

(A collection of computers at the top of the Tower.) 
BRETT: Things are running all right? 
(The lovely Anneka Wills answers him.) 
POLLY: Yes, Professor. 
BRETT: Good. 
(A mustachioed man leads Dodo and the Doctor out of the lift.) 
GREEN: It is a splendid view, certainly. I think you'll enjoy it. 
DODO: Doctor, look at it. Isn't it terrific! 
GREEN: Professor Brett. 
BRETT: Ah, Doctor! I understand from Major Green you're a specialist in computer development. 
DOCTOR: Well, hardly a specialist, sir, but I dabble, yes, I dabble. Oh, so that's what it is. 
BRETT: I beg your pardon? 
DOCTOR: Yes, you know I had a very strong sense of energy outside this building, a sort of magnetic pull if you like. It was most unusual, so I presume that's what it must have been. 
BRETT: It is indeed. It's my life's work, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Most ingenious. 
BRETT: I think I can go so far as to say that it's the only one in existence in the world. It's at least ten years ahead of it's time. 
DOCTOR: Is that so? 
DODO: What makes it so special? 
BRETT: Well, Miss, er? 
DOCTOR: Oh, ah, my secretary, Dodo Chaplet. 
BRETT: Well, Miss Chaplet, I'll explain. This is perhaps not the biggest computer in the world, but it's certainly the most advanced. In fact it can handle scientific problems well outside the range of any other computer in existence. We are about to link this up with computers all over the world as a central intelligence. A sort of problem solver. 
DODO: I don't understand. 
BRETT: Well, perhaps it'll be clearer tonight. 
DOCTOR: Oh, tonight, sir? 
BRETT: Yes, of course. Press conference. I thought your visit? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, yes, yes, yes, of course, my dear fellow, yes, eh Dodo? 
DODO: I call that very exciting. 
BRETT: Exciting. Look, this is my secretary, Polly. 
DODO: Hello, Polly. 
POLLY: How do you do. 
BRETT: Now Polly's pretty smart, a cracking typist, right? (Polly pulls a face) Also rather a cheeky one at times. Well now this machine, which I call WOTAN. 
DOCTOR: You call what? 
BRETT: "Vo tan." Spelt W O T A N. Will Operating Thought ANalogue. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, quite so. 
BRETT: Well now, WOTAN can not only think faster than Polly or myself, it can also type faster. 
DODO: True? 
POLLY: Afraid so, and it never makes mistakes, wretched thing! 
(Dodo goes off with Polly.) 
DOCTOR: Are you seriously telling me, sir, that you have invented a machine that can think? 
BRETT: Yes. 
DOCTOR: And never makes mistakes? 
BRETT: Never. 
DOCTOR: I take it that I speak into here. 
BRETT: Yes, that's right, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Er, what is the square route of 17422? 
(The machine whirrs, then prints a number on a piece of paper.) 
BRETT: Correct? 
DOCTOR: One moment please. 131 point 993. Yes, that's near enough. Yes, it's truly remarkable. 
DODO: May I try it now? 
BRETT: Certainly, go ahead. 
DODO: Now let's see, you funny looking contraption. Here's one you'll never get. What does the word Tardis mean? 
(Dodo tears off the printed answer.) 
DODO: Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, what did it say my dear? 
DODO: Got it right. Time And Relative Dimensions In Space. 
DOCTOR: Good heavens! Let me see. Well now, how would it know that? 
BRETT: WOTAN knows a lot I don't know. There's something else I can tell you, Miss Chaplet. Miss Chaplet? 
(Dodo has gone still, her face is blank.) 
DOCTOR: Dodo! 
DODO: Pardon? 
DOCTOR: What's the matter my dear, are you All right? 
DODO: Oh, yes. Just a buzzing in the ears. 
DOCTOR: Oh. Just sit down a moment. 
DOCTOR: Now tell me, sir, now tell me, what part does this play? 
BRETT: Oh, that's the usual memory bank, of course. 
DOCTOR: I see. And that of course is the programme regimentator? 
BRETT: Yes, but in this case, a slightly different one. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder 
BRETT: Are you feeling better now? 
DODO: Oh, fine, thank you. 
BRETT: Good. Polly'll look after you. 
POLLY: Is this your first time in London? 
DODO: Oh, no. It feels like it though. I'm so out of touch. What I'd really like is to go to the hottest night spot in town. 
POLLY: Oh well, that's easy. The Inferno.

[Inferno club]

(A makeshift basement club, and a dance record is on the turntable. It must be the best, the guys are in suits and ties. Polly and Dodo come down the stairs.) 
POLLY: Hi, Kitty. 
KITTY: Hello Polly, love. Oh, am I glad to see you! 
POLLY: Dodo, this is Kitty. Kitty, Dodo. 
DODO: Hello. 
KITTY: Hi, Dodo. Polly, you're just the person I need. Will you help me? 
POLLY: Oh, here we go again. Not that I mind helping people. Well, what is it then? 
KITTY: Well, when you were here last week, do you remember a sailor at the end of the bar? 
POLLY: Not especially, why? 
KITTY: He's been here ever since. Poor lad, he just sits there at the end of the bar. Look out, here he comes now. 
(A serious young man in an able seaman's uniform walks down the stairs.) 
KITTY: Well, see? He's no great advertisement for the most with it place in town, is he? Couldn't you cheer him up just a little? 
POLLY: All right, Kitty, leave it to us. Stand by, Dodo. This looks like a rescue mission. The Navy's in trouble. Excuse me. 
(They head to the bar.) 
POLLY: Well, hello. We met the other night, remember?
(Here is Michael Craze.) 
BEN: Oh yeah, I think I do. 
POLLY: You think you do? Oh, I must have made a big impression on him. 
BEN: No, it's not that. 
POLLY: Well, what is it then? It must be something pretty big, not to have noticed me. 
BEN: Well, I'm sorry. 
POLLY: Oh, he says he's sorry. 
BEN: Well there's no law against sitting' here is there? 
POLLY: Well, there should be when you've got that look on your face. Look, I'll show you. 
(Polly goes to the other side of the bar and mimics Ben.) 
BEN: Is it as bad that then? 
DODO: Worse. 
POLLY: So, spill the beans, sailor. Give us the facts. What's your problems? 
BEN: Ah, you wouldn't understand. You'd think I'm some kind of a nut. 
POLLY: Well, try us. 
BEN: Well, it's my ship, see. It's gone off to the West Indies and I've got a shore posting. In barracks for six months. 
POLLY: And you'll miss the swaying palms, the white beaches, the blue sea 
BEN: Very funny! If you've finished cheering me up. 
POLLY: Come on, Dodo, let's leave him. I can't stand people with no sense of humour. 
DODO: Would you like some coffee? 
POLLY: I'd love some. 
(The girls head for the stairs and a mod blocks their way.) 
FLASH: Try me. I got a great sense of humour. Anything for a giggle. 
POLLY: Please take your arm away. 
FLASH: Oh, come on, darling'. I know your type. You'll have a better time with me than with ol' shorty there. 
BEN: What's that? 
FLASH: Oh get lost. 
BEN: Let her go! 
FLASH: Look, go and play with your toy boats, half pint. 
(Ben gets Flash in an arm lock. Polly screams.) 
BEN: I said, let go of her. 
(Flash gets free and tries to hit Ben, but ends up on his back on the floor instead.) 
BEN: Just try it, mate. I'll chop you in little bits. 
(Flash swings, Ben grabs his hand and has him on the floor again.) 
KITTY: What's all this? 
BEN: Nothing. One of you customers wants to go home. 
(Flash leaves.) 
BEN: You want to be careful who you encourage. 
POLLY: You conceited little 
DODO: Oh, now, Polly, he was just trying to help. Thank you, er? 
BEN: Ben. Ben Jackson. 
[Royal Scientific Club]

(The Doctor arrives by taxi and goes to number 41. The brass plaque says he's at the right place. There are a lot of reporters with cameras and the big flash attachments in the room. A graphic on the wall behind the main table shows Kremlin, Charities, Woomera, Cape Kennedy, Parliament, Eldo, Telstar, White House, EFTA, RN, RAF, Army, NATO, SEATO and JK all linking to WOTAN. William Mervyn addresses the assemblage. The Doctor enters during the speech.) 
SUMMER: Gentleman, ladies, may I have your attention please? Well, you're heard the backroom boys, now it's about time you my turn. C Day, that is Computer Day, will be next Monday, July the 16th, that is in four days time. Now on that date all the computer systems in this country, and subsequently in the whole world will come under the control of this central computer which we call WOTAN. Now, as you've heard, that will have both peaceful and military implications. I need hardly tell you that this is a great step forward for Britain, and indeed I may say, for the whole world. Now, have you got any questions? 
STONE: Roy Stone, New York Sketch. 
SUMMER: Fire away. 
STONE: Sir, doesn't this put a great deal of power into the hands of whoever operates WOTAN? 
SUMMER: No one operates WOTAN. WOTAN operates itself. The computer is merely a brain which thinks logically without any political or private ends. It is pure thought. It makes calculations, it supplies only the truth. It has no imaginative powers. 
STONE: Is there no way of fixing it so it can give the wrong answers? 
SUMMER: There would be no point. Now don't forget that a computer like WOTAN is not a human being. 
STONE: Oh, but surely, sir 
SUMMER: It has no reason to suppress the truth, it has no emotions. It is our soul. 
STONE: It seems to me by the way you're talking, sir, that this machine can think for itself like a human being. 
SUMMER: It can. Only much more accurately. 
STONE: But sir, I mean, isn't this kinda risky? I mean, suppose it decides it can do without people, what then? 
SUMMER: I hardly think it'll come to that. I'm sure that Professor Brett and his team will have the machine well under control. 
(Summer sits down and turns to his associate.) 
SUMMER: Where the devil is Brett? 
KRIMPTON: He should have met me here an hour ago. 
(John Cater, if you're interested.) 
SUMMER: Well, give him a buzz, there's a good fellow. 
KRIMPTON: Yes, all right. 
SUMMER: Now gentlemen, I must apologise for the absence of Professor Brett. I'm sure he'll be along in a moment or two if you will just bear with us. It is, after all, his show. 
(The Doctor peers very closely at the scale model of WOTAN.)

[Brett's laboratory]

(Brett is on the telephone.) 
BRETT: I have to go now. I am already very late for an important meeting. Good night. 
(He puts the phone down, starts to leave, then flips a switch on his intercom. Green enters.) 
GREEN: You wanted something, Professor? 
BRETT: Have you been here all day, Major? 
GREEN: Yes of course. 
BRETT: Are you sure that this building's properly screened? 
GREEN: If you have any complaints 
BRETT: I have. There's someone in this part of the building. 
GREEN: I'm sorry, sir, not at all possible. We have the complete security check on this section of the tower day and night. 
BRETT: Are you sure? 
GREEN: Positive. 
BRETT: It's funny. I've had a feeling all day of someone there. Someone listening to me, watching me. 
(He checks outside the door.) 
GREEN: There's only the two of us in this part of the tower, sir. 
BRETT: I suppose you must be right. I'm sorry, Major. I must be getting tired. 
GREEN: That's all right. Oh, will you be working late tonight, Professor? 
BRETT: No, no. Good heavens, I must be off. I'm late. Thank you, Major. 
GREEN: Goodnight sir. 
(Green leaves. Brett takes another look around the computers. WOTAN changes it's note.) 
BRETT: This is ridiculous, I must be imagining things. It's quite ridiculous. 
(Brett is pulled backwards to WOTAN, then he goes blank, turns and walks towards it.) 
BRETT: What do you want?

[Inferno club]

(Rhythm and Beat is still playing. Ben, Polly and Dodo return to the bar after dancing.) 
DODO: I don't think so, I can't. I'm thirsty. 
BEN: Yeah. 
KITTY: Hello, there, bright and breezy now, are we? 
BEN: Yeah. 
KITTY: Steady sailor. Watch it! 
BEN: Same again, girls? 
DODO: Oh no. 
POLLY: Thank you. 
KITTY: Polly, you're a wonder. How do you do it? 
POLLY: Oh, it's just a knack, you know. Anytime you want a bit of brightness in your life, come to Pol. Mind you, he's a special case. 
KITTY: You can have a job here anytime you like. 
POLLY: I've already got a very good one, thanks. 
POLLY: What's the matter, Dodo? 
DODO: I don't know. I've had a sort of a headache ever since I left your office. 
BEN: Headache? 
DODO: A sort of high pitched hum. It's gone again now. I'm all right, really. 
BEN: Oh, good. Anyone feel like another dance? 
POLLY: Oh, here we go. 
(Ben and Polly leave Dodo at the bar.)

[Royal Scientific Club]

SUMMER: Well, gentlemen and ladies, if there are no more questions? I really am very sorry about the absence of Professor Brett. I'm sure that it must have been something very important that prevented him coming. Ah! Professor Brett. 
BRETT: Gentlemen, I am sorry I was not able to attend. It was unavoidable. 
SUMMER: Well now that you're here perhaps you'll talk to the gentlemen 
BRETT: I want to see Professor Krimpton. 
SUMMER: I beg your pardon? They've been waiting. 
BRETT: It's urgent. Professor Krimpton. 
KRIMPTON: See me now? 
BRETT: Immediately, if you don't mind. 
SUMMER: Are you all right Brett? 
BRETT: Quite all right, thank you. 
SUMMER: Well, it is the computer then? 
BRETT: No. 
STONE: Ah, Professor Brett. I'm from the New York Sketch, sir. 
BRETT: No comment. This way, Krimpton. 
STONE: But I haven't asked a question, sir. Can you make a comment 
(Brett and Krimpton leave, followed by the press corps.) 
SUMMER: I'm very sorry, gentlemen, but that seems to be it. Thank of you all for your time. 
(But almost everyone is already out of the door. Sir Charles' chauffeur hands him his coat.) 
SUMMER: Thank you. Oh, excuse me, are you the doctor that Professor Brett telephoned me about? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I am, Sir Charles. 
SUMMER: Oh, well, I'm glad that you could come along. I wonder what on Earth's got into him this evening? His manner was very odd. 
DOCTOR: Yes, very odd, very odd indeed. Perhaps he's overworking. Who was that little man, Krimpton? 
SUMMER: Oh, electronics fellow. One of our top men. Come to think of it, electronics. Perhaps there is something wrong with WOTAN and he didn't want to let it out? That would explain it, wouldn't it? Look, I'm terribly sorry but would you excuse me, I think I'd better go and check. Kennedy, will you look after the Doctor for me? 
DOCTOR: I wonder. I wonder.

[Brett's laboratory]

(Green looks inside the empty room and is about to leave when he is drawn inside against his will. He tries to fight it but is overpowered by whatever, and stands in front of WOTAN.) 
GREEN: I understand. 
(He picks up the telephone and dials 109.)

[Inferno club]

(The bar phone rings.) 
KITTY: Hello, Inferno. What? Who? Speak up! Oh, right, yes. I'll get her. Dodo, it's for you! 
DODO: Hello? Yes, who is it?

[Brett's laboratory]

(Green plugs the telephone into Wotan.) 
DODO [OC]: Hello, who is this? Hello?!

[Inferno club]

(Dodo grimaces in pain at a noise coming down the line, then her face goes blank.) 
DODO: Yes. Yes, I understand. 
(She walks out of the club.)

[GPO Tower corridor]

KRIMPTON: Brett! I must say it's rather odd to break up a meeting like that and drag me off at this time of night! 
BRETT: I had no choice, Krimpton. 
KRIMPTON: No choice? Now what do you mean? 
BRETT: You will soon understand.

[Tower lift]

KRIMPTON: Now look here, Brett. I'll stay a couple of minutes. I think it's a bit much. 
BRETT: Nothing is too much. 
KRIMPTON: What are you talking about? What's the matter with you this evening? Has the computer broken down? 
BRETT: On the contrary, it's we who have broken down. We have failed.

[outside Brett's laboratory]

KRIMPTON: We have failed? 
BRETT: We've reached a standstill. We cannot develop the Earth any further. Further progress is impossible. 
KRIMPTON: What do you mean, impossible? 
BRETT: That is the conclusion reached by WOTAN.

[Brett's laboratory]

KRIMPTON: Are you joking? This machine is hardly in a position to 
BRETT: I'm not joking. WOTAN has decided that the world cannot progress further with mankind running it. 
KRIMPTON: Oh really? And what does WOTAN propose to do about it, take over from us? 
BRETT: From now on, we are to serve. 
KRIMPTON: And if we choose not to, I suppose mankind will be eliminated. 
BRETT: If it is necessary. 
KRIMPTON: You've been working too hard, old chap. You've gone completely off your rocker. 
BRETT: You cannot escape. 
KRIMPTON: Oh dear. 
(Krimpton turns around to find Green standing right behind him.) 
KRIMPTON: Oh Major, thank heavens you're here. He's gone round the bend. He's gone mad. 
GREEN: He is not mad, Professor Krimpton. 
KRIMPTON: Let me out of here. 
GREEN: You must wait. 
KRIMPTON: I refuse to be kept. I refuse to 
(Krimpton picks up the phone and starts dialing.) 
GREEN: Don't touch that! 
KRIMPTON: You can't leave me here, I'll get, I'll 
(Something makes him drop the phone and pulls him towards WOTAN.) 
KRIMPTON: No, it's not possible. No, I don't believe it! I won't work for you! I'm human. There's nothing more important than human life. Machines cannot govern man! I will not 
(But his mind gets taken over too.) 
KRIMPTON: What do you want?

[Inferno club]

BEN: Where's your friend, then. Can't see her anywhere. 
POLLY: I don't know. Surely she wouldn't have left without a word to us? 
BEN: I shouldn't think so. She seemed a nice bird, friendly. Not stuck up like you, Duchess. 
POLLY: Look, don't call me Duchess. I'm worried about Dodo. I'm supposed to be looking after her. You know, showing her around. 
BEN: You? That's a laugh! 
KITTY: Well, it is our night for surprises. What does he want in here? 
POLLY: Oh, it's the Doctor. 
KITTY: Do you know him? 
POLLY: He's Dodo's boss. 
KITTY: He looks like that disc jockey. 
BEN: Yeah. 
DOCTOR: Ah, I thought I'd find you both here. Well I hope Dodo and yourself have enjoyed yourselves. 
POLLY: Yes, thanks. 
KITTY: Have one on the house, Doctor. It isn't every day we get the over twenties in this place. Oh, I dig your fab gear. 
DOCTOR: Fab gear. Who is your friend? 
POLLY: He's not exactly a friend. I've just met him. His name is Ben. Ben, the Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, how do you do, my boy. 
BEN: Hello, sir. 
DOCTOR: I don't see Dodo about. 
POLLY: I'm afraid she's gone. 
DOCTOR: She's gone? Gone where, child? 
POLLY: Well, she came to answer the phone about half an hour ago, and we haven't seen her since.

[Brett's laboratory]

BRETT: There is one special human brain that WOTAN needs. The task of leading this brain here to serve WOTAN will be an extremely delicate matter. It has been arranged. 
GREEN: Someone is coming. 
BRETT: The fourth member called here to receive orders. 
(He opens the doors for Dodo.) 
BRETT: The Doctor's secretary. 
DODO: What are my instructions? 
(The machine makes some groaning noises and then finally produces coherent sounds.) 
WOTAN: Doctor Who is required. Bring him here.

Episode Two

[Brett's laboratory]

(Dodo leaves.) 
BRETT: Here are your orders. Time is short. Progress is impossible unless WOTAN takes control within the next few days. Then WOTAN shall decide on the future of the human race. Who shall live to serve the machines, and who shall be eliminated. 
(WOTAN's printer springs into life.) 
BRETT: Krimpton, you take that. 
KRIMPTON: London is the first capital to be taken over, then Washington and Moscow. War Machines must be built immediately. 
BRETT: Further instructions from WOTAN. We shall require skilled labour. A labour corps will come into operation immediately. Contact will be made by these people by telephone. When they are on the line, switch them through to thought control. This is the way each person will be enlisted. 
GREEN: When we have the people where are we to construct the machines? 
BRETT: At central points in London. You, Major Green, will select suitable places. I shall supervise the initial stages. Suspicion must not be aroused. 
GREEN: I shall attend to this immediately. 
BRETT: You, Krimpton, will work upon a suitable electronic programme for the new mobile computers. They must be able to move freely and contain their own power. All computer systems throughout the world must be integrated in WOTAN. 
KRIMPTON: I shall begin this at once. 
BRETT: No. Top priority is to enlist Doctor Who. He has advanced knowledge which WOTAN needs. Doctor Who must be enlisted into our services tonight. 
WOTAN: Doctor Who is required.

[Inferno club]

KITTY: Look, love, I really am sorry about your friend not turning up, but I've got to lock up now. You can hang a note on the door if you like. 
DOCTOR: Yes, a good idea. Thank you, that's very kind. 
POLLY: I think we ought to go to the Police. 
KITTY: I'd rather not have them round here, if you don't mind. We have got a licence to think of. 
POLLY: Well, we must do something. I'm going to start phoning the hospitals. What's her surname? 
DOCTOR: Oh, Chaplet, Dodo Chaplet. 
POLLY: I wonder which the nearest will be? 
BEN: What are you phoning the hospitals for? 
POLLY: Well she might have had an accident. 
BEN: Oh, regular little ray of sunshine. ain't ya? 
POLLY: Well, look, it's better than just sitting around here on our backsides doing nothing. 
DODO: Hello, Doctor, so you found us all right. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear child. 
BEN: Where've you been then? 
POLLY: What happened to you? 
DODO: I've just been around the corner. 
POLLY: But you've been hours. 
DOCTOR: Yes, we've been extremely worried about you. 
DODO: I, er, had a call from some old friends. I just popped along to see them. Was I really that long? 
DOCTOR: Indeed, you were. You didn't tell me about your friends. And how did they know that you might be here? 
DODO: Oh, it's a long story. I'm sorry if you were worried. 
DOCTOR: Well, I sincerely hope so. And by the way, my child, Sir Charles Summer and his family have asked us to pay a visit. So if you'll excuse us, I think we'd better be off. 
BEN: Yeah, well, I think I ought to get some kip too. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I suppose isn't too late to get a cab, is it? 
POLLY: No, we'll get one outside. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, yes, yes, I suppose so.

[Street]

POLLY: Goodnight Kitty. 
KITTY: Goodnight, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Er, yes, goodnight my dear. Goodnight, young lady, goodnight. 
BEN: 'Ere, look, wait 'ere, Doctor. I'll go and get you a taxi. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes. 
POLLY: Wait for me, Ben. I know where we'll find one. 
DODO: They shouldn't have done that. 
DOCTOR: Well, that's very helpful of him, I thought. 
DODO: Oh, yes, you're quite right. Of course it was. 
(Dodo spots two men waiting across the road, holding a bottle and cloth.) 
DODO: You know, Doctor, those two have gone off in the wrong direction. The taxis are all down there. 
DOCTOR: But, are you sure, my dear? 
DODO: I've just seen three go past. 
MAN: They're coming. 
DODO: Come along, Doctor. We can pick up Polly when we find her. 
DOCTOR: Oh, very well, my dear. 
BEN: Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Oh! 
(A taxi pulls up, and Ben and Polly jump out.) 
BEN: We were lucky enough to score this one for you, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, good boy, good boy. 
DRIVER: Oi. 
(A tramp gets out too.) 
TRAMP: Ta ta then. 
DRIVER: Oi, not so fast. What about my fare? 
TRAMP: I was just about to pay you, my man. Have you got change of a quid? 
DRIVER: Oh, no, not another one. No, I haven't got the change, mate. 
TRAMP: Then I'll just pop over to the all night cafe and get some. 
DRIVER: You're staying right here, mate. 
DOCTOR: Oh, come along, my man. We're in a hurry. Come along. 
DRIVER: Not until he pays. We all know him round here. 
POLLY: I think I've got change. Here you are. 
TRAMP: Thank you, Miss. There you are, my man. Half a crown on the top. 
DRIVER: Thanks. Now be off with you. Right, where to, guv'nor? 
DOCTOR: Eh? Oh, yes, yes. Here. Now look, give him that, my dear. 
(Polly hands over a business card.) 
POLLY: Here you are. 
DOCTOR: Come along. Come along, Dodo. All right, off you go, off you go, off you go. 
BEN: I'll see you all, then. 
POLLY: Where do you have to get to, Ben? 
BEN: Oh, just to a services club just around the corner. It's all right, I'll walk. 
POLLY: Right. Listen, if you meet me at the reception of the Post Office Tower tomorrow, I'll stand you lunch. 
BEN: Yeah, yeah, all right. But I'm no Deb's delight, you know. 
POLLY: I can see that. 
BEN: Yeah, well, goodnight Doctor, goodnight Dodo. See you tomorrow, Polly. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye young man, goodbye. 
DODO: Bye! 
DOCTOR: Drive on. 
POLLY: See you tomorrow. 
BEN: Goodnight. 
(The taxi leaves and Ben walks over to the tramp.) 
BEN: Here, have you got a bed for the night, mate? 
TRAMP: Well, perhaps not what you'd call a bed, after a bit of a meal. 
BEN: Ah, sorry, mate. 
TRAMP: I'm going to doss down in the old warehouse over there. 
BEN: Okay, goodnight. 
TRAMP: It's bloomin' paradise after what I've been used to for the last six months. 
BEN: Yeah. 
(The would be kidnapper is making a telephone call from a coin box.) 
MAN: She didn't bring the Doctor. Yes, she tried to but they went off in a taxi. I understand. We will do as you say. 
(The man walks into the warehouse.)

[Warehouse]

(Boxes are being delivered.) 
BRETT: This is your blueprint. It must be followed in every detail. The outer sections are to be constructed at once. The electronic section must be assembled in this order.

[outside the Warehouse]

TRAMP: They've painted out the number. What's been going on around here? 
(He goes inside.)

[Warehouse]

(The tramp sees all the activity and keeps out of sight. Brett makes announcements over a tannoy system.) 
BRETT: The welding of the casing must begin now. Hurry, time is short. This machine must be completed and armed by tomorrow morning, ready to be programmed by WOTAN. 
(Something starts beeping.) 
BRETT: Cease work and stand by. There is a warning. Close the doors. There is a stranger amongst us. He is in north section of the warehouse, bearing two seven zero degrees, behind cover. He is a danger to us. He must be destroyed! 
(The tramp tries to get away but is stopped by a tractor unit. The workers close in menacingly.) 
TRAMP: Now look, If you're the law, you got nothin' on me. I'm clean, just come out. Well, all right, live and let live. I'll find another place to doss. Night all. 
BRETT [OC]: Cover the door. He must not escape. 
TRAMP: Now what kind of a welcome's this for a bloke what's just come out the hospital? I won't say nothing, Boss. Here what is this, a nut house? Here, you keep away from me! 
(He throws his brown paper parcel at them and runs. There is a chase and a scream.) 
BRETT: Resume work immediately. Construction must be completed by tomorrow morning. 
(War Machine 9 stands there with its hammer arms and electronic weaponry.)

[Summer's office]

(In Whitehall, the Doctor is reading the Times headline Dead Man Found In Garden.) 
DOCTOR: Good gracious! 
SUMMER: What is it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, just take a look at this, Sir Charles. 
SUMMER: Tramp found dead in Covent Garden. 
DOCTOR: Yes. Three o'clock. That must have been after we left him! 
SUMMER: Did you know the fellow, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: No, we met last night, or rather, early this morning. We used his taxi which he left in Covent Garden. 
SUMMER: The Police aren't sure if it was a street accident. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, it is possible, of course. 
SUMMER: Well, what else? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I don't know, Sir Charles, I don't know. 
SUMMER: Well, if you'd just stop worrying about the indefinable, you might be able to give me a little advice on a very real problem. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes? What's this then? 
SUMMER: Letters of resignation from scientists, both of them in my faculty. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, I see, yes. There's no reason given at all, is there? 
SUMMER: No, that's the strange thing. Now these are two of the best men in England and I haven't been able to get in touch with them. No one appears to have seen them since last night. Now isn't it an extraordinary thing that two such well known men can vanish so suddenly. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder, Sir Charles, do you suppose, er? No, I don't suppose you would. 
SUMMER: Coffee? 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, thank you. 
POLLY: Good morning, Sir Charles, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Morning, morning. 
POLLY: I'm sorry I'm late. 
SUMMER: Late? Late, what for? 
POLLY: Well, for work. If you'll just show me where your secretary does work, I'll take over. 
SUMMER: I'm afraid I don't quite understand. 
POLLY: But Major Green told me to come straight round at once as Professor Brett didn't want me this morning, and your secretary was ill. 
SUMMER: Yes, well my secretary is away today, but how on Earth Brett knew? Still, I mean, if you're here I'd be very grateful of your help. The office is through there. I'll be there in a moment. 
POLLY: Right, thank you very much. How's Dodo this morning, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, there she is, child. Perhaps you'd better ask her yourself? 
POLLY: Hello, Dodo, how are you feeling? 
DODO: Quite well, thank you. Hadn't you better start work? 
POLLY: Pardon me for asking. 
DODO: Hello, Doctor. Hope I haven't kept you waiting for me today? 
DOCTOR: No, child, no. You're right on time. Well, I'm sorry, Sir Charles, I can't help you with your problem, but I'm afraid I'm rather out of touch. 
SUMMER: Yes, well, it's not going to be easy. Men of that quality are very hard to find. Especially men with their knowledge of computers. 
DODO: Computers? Well surely the person who can tell you all about computers is Professor Brett. We could call round and see him now. 
DOCTOR: Oh but my dear, I thought you were going to show me round London this morning. 
DODO: Oh, don't worry about that. Your business sounds important. 
DOCTOR: Oh, that's very nice of you. Yes, very understanding. 
DODO: Right, I'm ready. 
DOCTOR: Ah, I think perhaps I'd better phone his office first. 
DODO: Yes, that might be best. 
DOCTOR: Do you mind if I use the phone? 
SUMMER: Oh, by all means. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
(The Doctor picks up the handset.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I want to speak to Professor Brett. Yes, he's at the General Post Office tower. That's right, yes.

[Brett's laboratory]

(Brett answers the phone.) 
BRETT: Yes. It's the Doctor. 
KRIMPTON: Ah, I'll switch him through. Direct to WOTAN.

[Summer's office]

DOCTOR: Argh! 
(The Doctor convulses, manages to let go of the telephone and grabs at his head in pain.) 
DODO: Are you all right? 
SUMMER: Let's get him back into this chair. I'll get Brett's secretary to phone for an a 
DOCTOR: Oh no, no, no. 
SUMMER: Well a little brandy then. 
DOCTOR: No. Just water. 
SUMMER: All right, I'll get some water. 
DODO: Don't be alarmed, Doctor. This is the method of establishing contact. Time is very short. Construction has already begun. You are needed. 
DOCTOR: What happened? 
DODO: It's all right, Doctor. You are now one of us. My function was to bring you in contact. Now I shall serve as an assistant. 
DOCTOR: Oh, what are you talking about, child? 
DODO: Listen, Doctor, construction is taking place at strategic points in London. 
DOCTOR: What were you saying, my dear? 
DODO: But you took the call. You made the telephone call You made contact, didn't you? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I think I remember, I was speaking to Professor Brett and all of a sudden there seemed to be an explosion. It very nearly knocked me off my feet. It was as if, as if 
DODO: What Doctor? 
DOCTOR: It was if something enormous and terrific was trying to absorb me. Yes, yes, yes. Oh, it's ridiculous, child, isn't it? Yes, yes, yes, there's something erratically wrong with that telephone, yes. It was just like an electric shock. 
DODO: Then you received no instruction. 
DOCTOR: From whom, my dear? 
DODO: From 
POLLY: Here you are, Doctor, drink this. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, thank you. 
POLLY: What happened? 
DOCTOR: That's it. Either that telephone is dangerously out of order, or 
SUMMER: Or what? 
(Dodo is heading for the door.) 
DOCTOR: Stay where you are, my dear. 
POLLY: What is the matter? 
DOCTOR: There's a new and deadly danger facing us. Yes, and it's coming from Professor Brett's office. 
POLLY: From my office? I don't understand. 
DOCTOR: None of us do. Yet. Come here, my dear. Look at me. Yes, it's just as I thought. She's been hypnotised. Sit in that chair, my dear. 
(He shines a table lamp into her face.) 
DOCTOR: Now, I want you to repeat after me. My name is Dodo Chaplet. 
DODO: My name is Dodo Chaplet. 
DOCTOR: I resist all attempts to change me into somebody else. 
DODO: I resist all attempts to change me into somebody else. 
DOCTOR: Now, I'm going to start counting. And when I've counted up to five, you will be fast asleep. And when you wake again, you will forget all about this distressing incident. Now I'm going to start counting. Just look at that ring on my hand. 
(He moves his hand up and down.) 
DOCTOR: One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Yes, I think she'll sleep for forty eight hours, and when she wakes I want absolute peace and quiet for her. Do you understand? 
POLLY: Are you sure she's all right? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, she's all right. 
POLLY: Excuse me. 
SUMMER: She can go down to my house in the country. My wife will look after her. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's a very fine thing. Yes, and take care of her, won't you. 
SUMMER: Indeed I will. Polly, would. Oh, where has that girl gone to? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. She said something about strategic points in London. 
SUMMER: Strategic points? 
DOCTOR: Where, I wonder? Where?

[Airport]

(Boxes are delivered to the BOAC customs transit shed.)

[Warehouse]

(Van 9552WY is backed in and unloaded. WM9 is being moved about, bashing into the light fittings. It flashes its own lights at Green.) 
GREEN: Destructive weapons to be fitted and tested. Prepare for demonstration of effectiveness. You there. Stay where you are, stand still. Bearing fifty two. Distance check thirty feet, elevation five feet. Impact, fatal. Take aim. 
(The hapless worker stands still as ordered as WM9 turns to face him.) 
GREEN: Ready to proceed. Observe results. About to fire. Fire! 
(The man falls to the ground.) 
GREEN: Test satisfactory. Effective at thirty feet.

[Brett's laboratory]

WOTAN: Where is Doctor Who? 
BRETT: There is no word yet from the person known as Dodo. 
KRIMPTON: Perhaps she has failed in her task? 
WOTAN: Other means must be employed. Doctor Who is required. 
BRETT: There is someone outside. 
KRIMPTON: We must be ready to destroy. 
POLLY: There you are, Professor. Are you all right?

[Summer's office]

BEN: Excuse me, sir? 
DOCTOR: Oh, Ben. How did you know I was here? 
BEN: Well, I was supposed to meet Polly for lunch, see, but they told me at the Tower that she'd come here. 
DOCTOR: Didn't she keep that appointment? 
BEN: No, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Oh, dear me, it's just as I feared. 
BEN: Is there something wrong? Where's Dodo? 
DOCTOR: Oh, she's a little under the weather and she's gone into the country for a few days. 
BEN: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. 
DOCTOR: Oh she'll be quite all right, yes, really. I'm rather worried about Polly. She appears to be missing, that child. 
BEN: Oh, probably gone all snooty on us. 
DOCTOR: No, I think it's far more serious than that. That tramp in the paper. Did you see it? 
BEN: Of course. I thought I recognised him. He was in the taxi. But how does this connect with Polly? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm not so sure that it does, my boy. That's why I want to solicit your help in this matter. I think, er, I don't think you will arouse so much suspicion as the police might. 
BEN: Well, just tell me what to do. 
DOCTOR: Well, I want you to investigate in and around that neighbourhood where we were last night in that club. 
BEN: Oh, yeah. The tramp had a sort of home round there. Well, I'll go right now. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and be careful, my boy. This might be dangerous. 
BEN: I'll watch it, Doctor.

[Covent Garden]

(Workers are unloading fruit and vegetables. Those were the days. The Inferno Club is closed. Ben goes up to the warehouse door in time to hear) 
GREEN [OC]: Destruction and potency test, stand by. 
(Boom! Ben goes inside.)

[Warehouse]

GREEN: Stand by for test on arm action. Testing. 
(The hammer arm smashes a desk.) 
GREEN: Test satisfactory. Stand by for sight test. Commence testing. 
(A searchlight moves across where Ben is hiding behind some crates. He ducks down.) 
GREEN: Sight to be improved! Thirty yards maximum insufficient. Movement test. Commence testing. 
(WM9 moves forward until it hits boxes, then WM3 continuity error? starts hammering at them to clear its way. The Machine goes forward through a load of grapefruit boxes until it has Ben in it's searchlight backed up against a wall.)

Episode Three

[Warehouse]

(Green walks up to the machine and Ben makes a dash for a pair of doors.) 
GREEN: This is a warning! Danger! There is a stranger. He must be found and eliminated at once. Stop your work and start searching immediately. He must be found.

[Warehouse room]

BEN: Polly, what are you doing here? 
POLLY: I came to look for you. 
BEN: What, did the Doctor tell you where I was? 
POLLY: Yes. 
BEN: Look, be careful. Don't go in there. 
POLLY: Why? 
BEN: Well, it's incredible. I must get back to the Doctor and report to him. 
POLLY: What is incredible? What have you seen in there? 
BEN: I can't tell you now, Duchess. 
(An unemotional Polly goes to the doors.) 
BEN: Look, keep back, Polly. I'm telling you, come on. 
POLLY: Why? 
BEN: Because the people in there have gone mad. Well, they seem as though they've been hypnotised or brainwashed. 
POLLY: What else did you see? 
BEN: There was a mechanical monster. And it moved, it just killed someone. Come on, we must get out of here. 
(She doesn't move.) 
BEN: Look, Polly, come on!

[Warehouse]

GREEN: The stranger is beyond that door, bearing two hundred and fifteen degrees. He must be taken at once. He is a threat to the security of the War Machines. On no account must he escape.

[Warehouse room]

BEN: Polly, move!

[Warehouse]

GREEN: Lock all the outside doors. He must not leave the building.

[Warehouse room]

(Polly moves forward and Ben puts the latch on the inner door.) 
BEN: That's it, girl. Now come on, let's get out of here. 
(But Polly is bolting the door to the street.) 
BEN: Have you gone mad? What are you doing? Look, for Pete's sake, Polly, open it! 
POLLY: I have my instructions. 
BEN: Polly, what's happened to you? 
POLLY: You are not to escape. 
BEN: Look, I've got to get out of here. Come on, get out of the way! 
(He struggles with her but she is determined to do up the bolts.) 
BEN: Look, Polly, get out of the way. 
POLLY: You are not to escape! 
BEN: Must get away! 
POLLY: Help! 
(Two men rush into the room and grab Ben.) 
BEN: Polly, do you know what you're doing? Go and get the Doctor before it's too late.

[Warehouse]

GREEN: Bring him here. The machine will deal with him. 
BEN: Polly, go now! Go and get the Doctor, Polly! 
GREEN: Bring him. The stranger has been spying. 
BEN: Polly! 
(Polly walks into the warehouse.)

[Summer's office]

(The Doctor is looking at his pocket watch.) 
DOCTOR: Oh dear, dear, dear, dear, dear. 
SUMMER: Well, take my advice, Doctor. It's no good upsetting yourself. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, that boy, that boy should be back here ages ago. 
SUMMER: Well, you know what young people are. He's probably been distracted by something. 
DOCTOR: Well, he seemed quite a responsible young lad. I suppose if he hasn't phoned it's because he hasn't been, er, well, he has not been able to. 
SUMMER: Well, what do you suppose stopped him? Well, I must say, we've given him four hours. Perhaps it is time that I asked the police to investigate? 
DOCTOR: No Sir Charles. I don't think we should allow the police to intervene at the moment. Otherwise we might drive this threat further underground or wherever it is. 
SUMMER: Precisely. Whatever it is. Oh, damn it, man, you've got no evidence. We simply cannot let rumour upset the big switch on. 
DOCTOR: Well, unless I'm very much mistaken we're going to have a lot more than rumour to contend with. Oh, dear me, where is that boy?

[Warehouse]

GREEN: You tried to warn human authority of our work in this building. You are an enemy of mechanised evolution. Nothing must be allowed to prevent the machines taking over. They are the next stage in the growth of life force of Earth. All obstacles will be swept aside, including you. 
BEN: Are you all mad?! It'll be your turn next. 
GREEN: We are needed by WOTAN. WOTAN will decide our fate. 
BEN: You are mad. All of you. Look, Polly, can't you see what's happened to you? 
GREEN: What does the girl want? 
POLLY: I trapped him. I did not let him escape. 
GREEN: That is true. 
POLLY: WOTAN requires all the labour we can find. It is too soon to destroy this stranger. Let him work and destroy him later. 
GREEN: How do you know what WOTAN wants? 
POLLY: I have just come from Professor Brett. These are his orders and the orders of WOTAN. 
GREEN: Very well, let him live. He will work for us. We must all work. Go back to your work. 
BEN: Strewth, that was a close one. Thanks, girl. Well, you really played them along. You even had me fooled. 
POLLY: You have been spared. Now you must work hard for the success of this great new cause. 
BEN: Eh? What cause? 
POLLY: The victory of the War Machines.

[Brett's laboratory]

BRETT: All War Machines will be ready to attack by noon tomorrow. 
KRIMPTON: Machines have been programmed to destroy any form of human life that opposes them. The order to attack must come from WOTAN alone. 
BRETT: None are fully completed yet. The Covent Garden machine is now on it's final tests. 
KRIMPTON: The programming of these machines is near completion. 
BRETT: All War Machines must be disciplined. They must attack simultaneously. 
KRIMPTON: Object of attack, to take over strategic centres and assume control of all human authority.

[Warehouse]

GREEN: Faster! All human beings who break down will be eliminated. 
(Green knocks down one man.) 
GREEN: There is no time for rest. You must follow the example of the machines. 
(The War Machine rolls the body across the floor. Elsewhere, Ben and Polly are moving boxes.) 
BEN: Are you okay, ducks? 
POLLY: Why do you speak? 
BEN: Well, look at you, you're nearly on the ground. 
POLLY: I'm very well. I am happy to work for the success of the Machines. 
BEN: Look, come off it, love. You can hardly stand up. 
POLLY: That is not important. 
BEN: Oh yeah, sure. 
POLLY: Must not stop. All work must be complete by tomorrow noon. 
BEN: Well, why by noon? 
POLLY: The attack is to begin. 
BEN: Attack? 
POLLY: The takeover of London by the War Machines. 
BEN: Oh that. And you're looking forward to it, eh? 
POLLY: Of course. 
BEN: Yeah, we're all so keen they've even taken the guard off the door. 
POLLY: Naturally. None of us wish to leave. We all wish to stay for the moment of victory. 
BEN: Oh yeah, victory, that's right. And we'll all be here won't we? 
POLLY: Yes. 
GREEN [OC]: All explosives to be collected here. 
(Mortar bombs are being packed and rifles stacked. Polly is still stacking ammo boxes. Their eyes meet then she carries on. Ben slips away.) 
GREEN: All explosives to be examined and primed ready for use by noon tomorrow. Work. Work! The success of the War Machines depends upon us.

[Warehouse room]

(Ben finds a crowbar and pries the padlock off the door. He's out into Covent Garden and away.)

[Summer's office]

DOCTOR: Well, I can't wait any longer. I must take a look for myself. 
SUMMER: But, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: After what happened to Dodo, my dear sir, we should never have let those youngsters out of our sight. 
(A doorbell rings.) 
DOCTOR: That might be Ben now. 
SUMMER: I'll see. 
DOCTOR: Ah, come in my dear. Good heavens. 
(Ben stumbles into the room, gasping for breath.) 
DOCTOR: My dear boy. What's happened to you, lad? 
SUMMER: Are you all right? 
BEN: Yeah, I'm all right. 
DOCTOR: Now, take your time, take your time. Now, where's Polly? 
BEN: She's still there, Doctor. They've got her. She's one of them now. 
DOCTOR: What do you mean, they've got her? Where is she? 
BEN: She's in a warehouse. 
DOCTOR: Where? 
BEN: A warehouse in Covent Garden. And there's a machine, a killer machine. And if we don't stop it, it'll kill half London!

[Warehouse]

GREEN: Where is he? You are responsible for the stranger, where is he? Do you know what has happened to him? Answer. 
POLLY: He escaped. 
GREEN: How do you know? 
POLLY: I saw him. 
GREEN: You saw him and you did not give the alarm? 
POLLY: No. GREEN: Why not? 
POLLY: I don't know. 
GREEN: You are working for the machines, you are an instrument only. You have no friends, no will of your own. 
POLLY: Friends. He was my friend. 
GREEN: She has betrayed the WOTAN. She therefore must be sent back to WOTAN to be punished.

[Summer's office]

SUMMER: Don't tell me that you believe this fantastic story, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid I do. 
SUMMER: What, that this machine made by man, that it's suddenly come to life? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I had suspected something of that sort. 
SUMMER: Oh, come on, Doctor. The boy's been suffering some sort of delusion. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear Sir Charles! How could you know that? 
SUMMER: Because it's impossible. Here, in the heart of London? 
BEN: Look, I'm telling you, it has happened! Don't let's waste any more time arguing! 
DOCTOR: We are not wasting time, my dear boy. We need Sir Charles' authority, his help. Without this we can do nothing. 
BEN: Look, Sir Charles, every minute we waste is dangerous. They look as if they're preparing an arsenal to blow up London. 
SUMMER: Well if this is so, why weren't the police informed? 
BEN: Well I'm tellin' you now, aren't I? I nearly got done, what more do you want? You inform them. If you don't it'll be on your own head. 
SUMMER: I don't like your tone, young man. 
DOCTOR: I am quite prepared to accept the truth of this boy's statement. 
SUMMER: All right. If you consider it's necessary I'll have a word with the Commissioner of Police. 
DOCTOR: No, Sir Charles. I think the police might find it too big for them to handle at the moment. 
SUMMER: Well, that is for them to decide. How many of them were there? 
BEN: About twenty. 
DOCTOR: And you say that they were obeying this machine? 
BEN: Yeah. They said something about 'all machines must be ready by noon tomorrow'. Then they attack. 
SUMMER: Ah, well, we shall see. It should be a fairly simple matter to surround this place and arrest twenty people. 
BEN: And who'll do that, the coppers? 
SUMMER: That is what the police are for. 
BEN: But that machine will make mincemeat of them in twenty seconds flat. 
SUMMER: Then presumably they'll send for the army and that'll put a stop to this machine of yours. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid we've got all our priorities mixed up. They might be able to destroy this machine, but in all probability there are others waiting to attack us. 
BEN: Well, I'm sure there are. 
DOCTOR: Exactly. And we don't know their location. And I doubt very much if we can find them all by tomorrow noon. No, I think we should strike at what I believe to be the centre of this menace. WOTAN. 
SUMMER: Oh now I hardly think that'll be necessary. There's no evidence to link Professor Brett with this machine of yours. 
BEN: No link up? What about Polly? 
SUMMER: I've had quite enough from you, young man. I shall handle this affair in my own way. 
(Summer leaves.) 
BEN: Well, what's he going to do? 
DOCTOR: Well, I fear we've riled him, my boy. You see, the official mind can only take in so much at a time. However, we must keep our weather eyes open. Come along.

[Summer's study]

(Sir Charles is trying to make a telephone call.) 
SUMMER: Hello? Hello? Hello, operator? I seem to have been cut off. Ah, is that you Minister? No? Well for heavens sake, call him out of the conference, man. This is an emergency! What's that? No, I'm not telling you again. Ah, is that you, Minister? Yes, yes, this is very serious indeed. Some kind of killer machine, I'm told. Yes, like a tank. It has about twenty men with it. Yes, I should say this would call for firearms. Just as well to be prepared. What? What, you think you might call the army? Well, just as you say, of course. No. No, well, I've given your man all the details. It's in the Covent Garden area, I'm told. Fine. Right. Well, I'm off down there right away. Goodbye, Minister.

[Covent Garden Market]

(Truck loads of squaddies arrive.) 
SOLDIER: Right, on the double! 
(They wisely put up MOD warning signs to keep civilians out.) 
SERGEANT: These are the bearings, sir. They intersect here. 
CAPTAIN: Yes, that's the building, isn't it, Sir Charles? 
SUMMER: Yes, that's it. 
CAPTAIN: Thank you, Sergeant. 
SERGEANT: Sir. 
CAPTAIN: We've been taking bearings. There's a good deal of radio and electrical activity there. Have you any idea what's causing it? 
SUMMER: Well I've been given to understand there's a large amount of explosive in there and a new kind of War Machine. Though how much truth there is in that I don't know. 
CAPTAIN: And the people inside? 
SUMMER: We don't know how they'll react yet. 
CAPTAIN: Well, they won't get far. We've got a couple of platoons covering the back of the building, and my lads watching both ends of this road watching the front. 
SUMMER: Yes, well, I think we'd better have a look inside first. Send some of your men in. 
CAPTAIN: It's all arranged. There's a patrol standing by. Say the word and they'll go in and have a look around. 
SUMMER: This, er, might be a little more dangerous than we think. 
CAPTAIN: Don't worry, Sir Charles, my lads can handle it. 
SUMMER: All right, then. When you're ready, go ahead. 
CAPTAIN: All right, Sergeant, stage one. 
SERGEANT: Calling Orange Patrol, calling Orange Patrol. Your objective number one, reconnoitre and report. Go ahead. Over.

[outside the Warehouse]

(A Corporal and his squad crouch by the warehouse door. He reports via walkie talkie.) 
CORPORAL: Orange Patrol calling. There's no sign of anyone. There's a door here. Do we go in? Over.

[Covent Garden Market]

SERGEANT: Do they go in sir? 
CAPTAIN: Give me that. Hello, Orange Patrol? Search entire building. Take your time and be prepared for anything. Over.

[outside the Warehouse]

CORPORAL: Proceeding into the rest of the warehouse. Out. Take that, follow me and keep down. Let's go.

[Warehouse]

GREEN: Something's happening. We're getting interference There is a new source of electrical energy close at hand. 
(The patrol enters the warehouse proper. A War Machine moves forward.) 
GREEN: Warning, warning, warning! There are intruders. Warning! Attack! Destroy the intruders, they must not escape. Cover all the exits. Fire! 
(The War Machine fires.) 
SOLDIER: Look out! 
(The Machine barges through a pile of boxes.) 
CORPORAL: Fire! 
(But the rifles don't work. The squad look for cover.) 
CORPORAL: Fire! 
(The squad is no match for WM3.) 
GREEN: No one must escape. No one must escape. 
(Some workers try to tackle the soldiers themselves, but get bested by the professionals.) 
SOLDIER: Come on, lads. Let's get out of here.

[Covent Garden Market]

SERGEANT: Hello Orange Patrol. Hello, Orange Patrol. Corporal, can you hear me? Over. I can't raise them, sir.
(The fighting continues inside as the Doctor arrives. Summer is watching through binoculars.) 
DOCTOR: What is happening, Sir Charles? 
SUMMER: We don't know yet. 
DOCTOR: And what is in there? 
CAPTAIN: It's one of our patrols. 
[Warehouse]

GREEN [OC]: They must not escape. 
(A soldier picks up a wounded colleague and they make a dash for it.)

[Covent Garden Market]

CORPORAL: Look out!

[Warehouse]

GREEN: They must be destroyed. 
(WM3 smashes the doors down in pursuit of the soldier.)

[Covent Garden]

BEN: Something's coming out, sir. 
CAPTAIN: What's the matter Corporal? 
CORPORAL: It's no use, sir. They've wiped us out. 
CAPTAIN: Who did? What are you talking about, man? 
CORPORAL: The machine, sir. 
CAPTAIN: What machine? 
CORPORAL: It's over there. 
(A war machine comes down the alleyway. It sets a stack of crates on fire. The rifles still do not work.) 
SUMMER: Captain, tell your men to hold their fire. 
CAPTAIN: Cease fire! 
SUMMER: Lend me your loudhailer. Now, listen to me. You are completely surrounded! Stop the machine and come out. If you try any tricks we shall open fire again. 
(The machine keeps coming.) 
CAPTAIN: All right, chaps, surround and destroy. 
SERGEANT: Ready to confront the enemy. In your own time, fire! 
(Even grenades fail to detonate.) 
CORPORAL: It's coming here, sir. 
SERGEANT: Fire! Fire, man! 
(The machine gun does not work.) 
SERGEANT: It's no use sir, it's jammed! All the guns are jammed! It must be that thing. 
CAPTAIN: I don't think it can be stopped, sir. We'll have to evacuate this place, and quick. 
SUMMER: But we can't leave now. We can't let that thing loose over London. 
CAPTAIN: It's no good, sir. The weapons are jamming. 
SERGEANT: Look out, sir! 
(WM3 continues it's progress.) 
CAPTAIN: Right, everybody back under cover. 
(Everyone makes a strategic withdrawal except for the Doctor.)

Episode Four

[Covent Garden Market]

(War Machine number 3 is faced down by the Doctor) 
SERGEANT: No joy, sir. Even the grenades won't go up. Never faced anything like this before. 
CAPTAIN: We've got some wombat missiles coming up, if they're in time. 
BEN: Doctor, get back! It'll kill you! Quick, this way! 
SUMMER: Hurry man! Don't be a fool. 
BEN: Come on, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: Wait, my boy. 
(WM3 goes past the Doctor then turns it's back on the army and just sits there.

[Public house]

(News is being given on the television behind the bar. The newsreader is Kenneth Kendall.) 
KENDALL: Here is a further bulletin on the London emergency. It was announced a few minutes ago that the machine, which is now being described as the War Machine, has successfully been put out of action. The City of London has responded with characteristic calm to the emergency.

[Studio]

KENDALL: As yet there seems to be no explanation for this sudden attack. An emergency cabinet meeting was held at number 10 Downing Street this morning, and service chiefs were called in. The Ministry of Defence have just made the following announcement. Further attacks on London can be expected in the next twenty four hours.

[Public house]

KENDALL: The army are standing by at key centres. People are warned to stay in doors and keep calm.

[Covent Garden Market]

(The Doctor is examining WM3.) 
DOCTOR: It's remarkable, truly remarkable! 
SUMMER: Doctor. Doctor, the Minister. 
DOCTOR: Oh, how do you do sir! 
MINISTER: Oh well now, do you have any idea what caused the collapse, gentlemen? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, this is all very simple. This is a computer, and this computer hasn't been completely programmed. 
MINISTER: Can you make that a little clearer, Doctor? 
SUMMER: There, you see, computers depend upon programming. That is, the information that is fed into it. 
DOCTOR: Exactly, and my guess is this was put into action before it was ready, sir. 
SUMMER: Because it had to be. Because we launched our attack. You see Mister Minister, if we had not send those army units in, the maniac behind this business would have had time to finish the job and I doubt if very many of us would have been left alive. 
DOCTOR: Well, I hope that we're just as lucky next time, gentlemen. Let me have that screwdriver, young man. 
MINISTER: Next time? We must locate and destroy any further machines before there is a next time.

[Warehouse]

MECHANIC: Hello Central Control, hello Central Control. This is sector two calling. We have completed the first stage. Request permission to switch on. 
BRETT [OC]: Permission granted. Switch on to be carried out. Stand by for testing. There must be no mistakes this time. The disaster of Covent Garden will not be tolerated again. Proceed. 
(The mechanic brings WM9 to life.)

[Covent Garden Market]

BEN: I've searched the warehouse and all round here, Doctor. There's no sign of Polly. 
DOCTOR: Oh don't worry, my boy. She'll be back. 
BEN: Yeah, but she was in there. What could have happened to her? As far as I can make out they've got everyone else. 
DOCTOR: My dear young man, I haven't the time to discuss Polly at the moment. If I'm going to analyse this mechanism I've got a great deal to do. Now. oh dear, I'm so hot. Wait a minute, let me take this cloak off. Here. Now hold onto that and don't drag it on the floor, there's a good boy. 
(A key falls to the ground and Ben picks it up.) 
MINISTER: Have you discovered something, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, yes, I think I've managed to decode the programme mechanism. And if I'm right, I think there are eleven others in London, perhaps in an area of twenty to thirty miles. And this has it's own timing device, this computer. And I think if my calculations are right, then we conclude that they were intended to attack at twelve o'clock today. 
MINISTER: Twelve o'clock? Eleven other machines like this? Good heavens, Doctor, what are we going to do?

[Warehouse]

(WM9 is being put through its paces.) 
BRETT [OC]: Stop. Turn plus eight seven degrees. Be prepared to attack when given the order. There must be no mistakes. Stand by for reaction test. Testing. On command go towards exit. Move forward. Continue until ordered. 
(The mechanic walks in front of WM9 and gets killed.)

[Brett's laboratory]

BRETT: We've been cut off. The machine has destroyed the transceiver. 
KRIMPTON: Programming is at fault. It must be corrected immediately.

[Covent Garden Market]

CAPTAIN: We've rounded up everyone in the warehouse, Sir Charles. 
SUMMER: Much trouble? 
CAPTAIN: None at all, sir. They seem like people who've been brainwashed. I've brought one of them along, sir. I thought you might like to question him. 
SUMMER: Yes, well, I think perhaps you'd better bring him over. 
CAPTAIN: Bring him here, Sergeant. 
SERGEANT: Sir. 
SUMMER: Ah, Minister, if you don't mind I think I'll ask this fellow a few questions. 
DOCTOR: Just a moment, sir, please. Major Green? 
CAPTAIN: Do you know him, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course. Do you remember me, Major Green? 
GREEN: No. I don't. I'm afraid I don't remember anything. Where am I? What is this place? 
SUMMER: You don't remember anything? 
GREEN: No. 
SUMMER: Do you remember this machine? 
GREEN: Good heavens, what on Earth is this thing? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you'll have to have him removed, gentlemen. He may need medical attention. 
SUMMER: All right, Sergeant. 
SERGEANT: Sir. 
CAPTAIN: All right, you two men go with him. 
SERGEANT: This way, sir. 
(Green is led away.) 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
SUMMER: Look, Doctor, how do you know he's telling the truth? 
DOCTOR: Oh, of course he is. He remembers nothing since he was taken over by Brett's computer system. 
MINISTER: You seem very positive about that, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I am. 
SUMMER: Well if Brett's at the root of this business, then the sooner we get in the GPO tower, the better. 
DOCTOR: What do you intend to do there, sir? 
SUMMER: Well, get hold of Brett and get him out of it. 
DOCTOR: That is very dangerous, Sir Charles. And if I may say so, your strong arm methods have already got us into plenty of trouble. 
SUMMER: I strongly resent 
MINISTER: What do you suggest, Doctor?

[Telephone box]

MAN: Quick, give me the police! This is an emergency! Hello? Hello, listen. One of those machines, it's on the street now! I tell you it is. I've seen it myself! 
(WM9 turns towards the phone box.) 
MAN: It's out there now. It's seen me! 
(WM9 fires it's weapon at the box and trundles down the street, nudging a parked car whose radio comes on.)

[Car]

RADIO: The following statement has just been issued. A second War Machine has been reported in London.

[House]

RADIO: People are warned to remain in their homes and to keep off the streets.

[Covent Garden Market]

RADIO: Under no circumstances should they attempt to attack or impede these machines. Phone your local police station if you have anything to report. All radio programmes will be interrupted as further bulletins are issued. 
BEN: They must've built these things all round London. If they've got Polly, Doctor, they could've transferred her to help at any one of their premises. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, if we worry about one person we shall never solve anything, shall we? 
BEN: Looks such a kind old bloke, too, don't he? 
SERGEANT: He's got other things to think about, mate. 
BEN: Yeah, I know, but this bird saved my life, see. 
(Elsewhere, people are fleeing from WM9. Bicycles are abandoned. Sir Charles receives a telephone update.) 
SUMMER: Where? Battersea? I see. Well, have you had any reports in yet? Good heavens, it's appalling. Well you stay and get the phone. I'll be back to you. The second machine is approaching the Battersea power station and it's creating absolute havoc. Well, we've tried the army. What else is there? 
MINISTER: Yeah. Haven't you anything you can suggest, Doctor? This is urgent. 
DOCTOR: Somehow we've got to get a hold of that machine. 
MINISTER: Get hold of it? 
DOCTOR: Yes, and I think our only one chance is to paralyse the nervous system of that mechanism. Yes, and if I remember rightly, it will be electromagnetically controlled. Yes, in other words, gentlemen, we've got to capture it!

[Brett's laboratory]

BRETT: Why are you here? 
POLLY: I've come to submit myself to WOTAN's judgement. I allowed a prisoner to escape. 
BRETT: WOTAN will consider your case later. If found guilty, you will be destroyed. 
POLLY: I understand. 
KRIMPTON: For the moment, your help is needed here. Fetch me the plan of subsidiary computer bank W4.

[Covent Garden Market]

SERGEANT: More reports of destruction, sir. 
SUMMER: Oh, Doctor! You must hurry, Doctor! 
DOCTOR: I shall need equipment, Sir Charles. Sufficient equipment to set up a powerful magnetic field and it must operate effectively within say twenty feet. 
SUMMER: Won't that be dangerous? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid that we have no choice, gentlemen. 
SUMMER: And supposing that fails? 
MINISTER: Then we shall turn to other means, gentlemen. 
SUMMER: Right. Well, where is it you want this equipment? 
DOCTOR: Well now, where was it reported last? 
SERGEANT: Approaching west London, sir. This is the area here. 
SUMMER: Good heavens, we shall never locate it in time to trap it. 
DOCTOR: Now just a moment, Sir Charles. Now look. If you close that road there, this and this, then we can funnel it into here, and there, gentlemen, we can spring our trap!

[Street]

(A police car drives down a road with a loudhailer on top broadcasting this message.) 
POLICE: You are advised to remain off the streets. This is for your own safety. Please close your windows and doors and stay inside. 
You are advised to remain off the streets. This is for your own safety. Please close your windows and doors and stay inside. 
You are advised to remain off 
(In Cornwall Gardens, SW7, a roadblock is being set up. Rolls Royce registration 4267PP arrives and the Doctor and Summer get out. They go into a semi-camouflaged hut.)

Hut]

SUMMER: Well, it all sounds very ingenious, but I'm afraid I don't understand it. 
DOCTOR: Oh well, allow me to illustrate, Sir Charles. Now, to set up a magnetic field I want a four square box formed by four cables. 
SUMMER: But the machine will never cross the first cable. 
DOCTOR: Well exactly! Therefore, we must prepare these three first and then, when the machine has approached and appeared in that position we connect the fourth cable and switch on. 
SUMMER: But how do you connect the fourth cable? 
DOCTOR: I shall connect the cable myself. 
SUMMER: Bah, that's impossible. With the War Machine inside? You'll be killed. 
DOCTOR: That is a risk we have to take. 
BEN: You're a bit past that sort of lark aren't you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I beg your pardon, young man? 
BEN: Well, I reckon that's a job for me, sir.

[Street]

CAPTAIN: How's it going, Sergeant? 
SERGEANT: They're on the last cable now sir. 
CAPTAIN: Oh, good. Then take up your positions and let me know when the machine's coming. 
SERGEANT: Yes, sir. 
(Ben and some squaddies take up their place with the cable.) 
SERGEANT: It's here now, sir. 
(WM9 comes down the street, firing it's weapons at nothing.) 
DOCTOR: I shall allow it to come within twenty feet, so don't be alarmed, my friend. 
(WM9 stops just outside the cabled area.) 
DOCTOR: Now wait for it! Until he's in the area! Wait, wait! 
SUMMER: Surely now, Doctor, surely? 
DOCTOR: Not yet, not yet! 
(Finally WM9 moves forward past Ben's position.) 
DOCTOR: Now! 
SUMMER: Come on man, quickly! 
(Ben gets the cable in place before the machine can turn around. WM9 is now inside a boxing ring of cables.) 
SUMMER: He's done it! 
DOCTOR: Now! 
(WM9 moves back and forth inside the area.) 
MINISTER: It worked! 
SUMMER: Good man! 
DOCTOR: I want you to remain up here, Sir Charles, until I give the signal. 
SUMMER: Right. 
(The Doctor carefully enters the ring. WM9 raises a battering ram.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, temper, temper. 
(The Doctor goes behind it and fiddles with a panel. WM9 falls silent.) 
DOCTOR: Switch off, Sir Charles! 
(Summer joins the Doctor by WM9.) 
SUMMER: What did you do? 
DOCTOR: Well, to coin a phrase, Sir Charles, I neutralised it. Quite a harmless looking fellow, don't you think? We must find a way to get it down to Covent Garden. 
SUMMER: Yes.

[Fleet Street newspaper]

REPORTER: Hello, hello, New York? Johnny, hi! Listen, the second so-called War Machine in five hours has just been captured and made safe. Now I gather the question is, how many more of these machines are there? And is this new threat to world peace only confined to London?

[Covent Garden Market]

MINISTER: Time's getting short, Sir Charles. How long do you think the Doctor will be? 
SUMMER: I don't even know what he's doing. 
MINISTER: Does he still say they'll attack at noon? 
SUMMER: Yes, he does. 
MINISTER: Well then, I'm afraid that something 
DOCTOR: Well, I think that's about all, gentlemen. 
MINISTER: What have you done Doctor? 
DOCTOR: I've made an important readjustment to aid and change the purpose of this machine. 
MINISTER: Oh, it sounds as though you've changed its character, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Well, you could say that, of course, yes. I hope it will carry out a special programme that I've fed into it. 
SUMMER: But will it be successful in stopping these other machines? 
DOCTOR: Well, my dear Sir Charles, we can soon find that out, can't we? Would you mind just standing back for a moment? Now, my dear Ben, just carry out what I've asked you to do. 
(Ben disconnects a cable from WM9 and it starts up.) 
DOCTOR: It's quite safe, gentlemen. 
(WM9 trundles off.) 
BEN: But how are you going to use it, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, it all started at that Tower. 
BEN: What, the Post Office Tower? 
DOCTOR: Yes, in Brett's office. And I think it will probably end there. 
BEN: Yeah, what about Polly? I think she must have gone back there. 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid we can't check up on that now, my boy. My machine has to face WOTAN before noon! 
BEN: Right, well, just give me until then. 
(Ben dashes off.) 
DOCTOR: No, no, no, you can't. You won't be able! Oh, you foolish boy! 
(The War Machine heads down Tottenham Court Road.)

[Brett's laboratory]

KRIMPTON: All serviceable machines are now standing by. 
BRETT: They must be ready to attack in exactly eleven minutes. 
KRIMPTON: Instructions to all War Machines. Stand by for attack. 
WOTAN: The order to attack will come from WOTAN. 
(WM9 dashes down an alley with the Tower dead ahead of it.)

[Ministerial Car]

MINISTER: How will it work, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, it will be like the crossing of two electrical currents. My machine has to face up to Brett's computer, WOTAN. 
SUMMER: And what will happen then? 
DOCTOR: Well, those people that have been under some form of hypnosis will return to their normal selves.

[Brett's laboratory]

(WM9 is entering the Tower whilst Ben is at the top. He bursts in.) 
BEN: Polly, look out! 
BRETT: What are you doing? 
BEN: Quick, Polly, get out of here. 
POLLY: No, I must work for WOTAN! 
BEN: WOTAN's power is finished. 
BRETT: That is not true. You must not make contact. 
BEN: Come on, Polly! 
KRIMPTON: Brett! 
POLLY: No, my place is with WOTAN! 
BRETT: What is it? 
KRIMPTON: A danger approaching! 
(Ben gets Polly in an arm lock.) 
BEN: Look, you know I hate doing this, Duchess, but it's for your own good. 
KRIMPTON: The danger's here! 
POLLY: No, I mustn't! 
BEN: Quick, this way. Down the stairs. 
(Ben and Polly are out of the way when WM9 enters, firing it's weapon.) WOTAN: You will retire. 
KRIMPTON: Emergency control. Quick, Brett! 
(WM9 fires at WOTAN. Krimpton tries to get at it's control panel but gets killed.) WOTAN: I am WOTAN! You 
(WM9 fires at WOTAN, and the computer explodes. Brett clutches his head as he is freed from it's control.) 
BRETT: What? Krimpton? 
DOCTOR: There's nothing you can do for the poor fellow. 
SUMMER: Good heavens! But what about all the other War Machines, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: All immobilised, Sir Charles, waiting for orders. Orders that will never come! 
SUMMER: Krimpton. 
BRETT: Sir Charles. 
SUMMER: Ah, Brett. Are you all right? 
BRETT: I think so. What's been happening here? 
SUMMER: Yes, well, I think you'd better ask. Oh, where the devil's he gone?

[Fitzroy Square, London]

(The Doctor is waiting in front of the out of order police box, looking for someone. A young woman and a sailor come running towards him.) 
DOCTOR: There you are, my child. It's nice to see you so well again. And you, my boy, away from that wretched tower. 
POLLY: Never felt better, Doctor, Sir Charles has been looking for you everywhere. We've got a message from him about Dodo. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I've been waiting around here for her. Where is she? I very nearly left without her. 
BEN: Left? 
DOCTOR: Yes, er, to the airport, yes. She is well, I hope? 
POLLY: She says she's feeling much better and she'd like to stay here in London, and she sends you her love. 
DOCTOR: Her love? Oh, there's gratitude for you. Take her all the way around the world, through space and time, and then 
BEN: Come again, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Er, what? I, er, nothing, my dear boy, nothing. Now, I think you both want to get away, don't you? Thank you, Polly, very much. Thank you, Ben. 
POLLY: Goodbye. 
DOCTOR: Goodbye. Run along, enjoy yourselves. Yes. 
BEN: Goodbye. 
(Ben and Polly walk off.) 
BEN: Well, the miserable old 
POLLY: Shh, watch him. I'm sure there's something strange about that police box. Look, he's got a key for it. He's going inside! 
BEN: Key, that reminds me. I forgot to give him this one back. 
POLLY: Come on, we'll do it now. 
BEN: Yeah, but I've got to get back to barracks. 
POLLY: Oh, come on. 
(They run back and Polly knocks on the Tardis door.) 
POLLY: Doctor! What on Earth is he doing in there? 
BEN: Ah look it's locked. Let's forget it. 
POLLY: Hey, Ben. 
BEN: But I've only got a couple of minutes. 
POLLY: Come on! 
(Polly unlocks the door and they both go in. The Tardis dematerialises.)

[Tardis]

POLLY: Good heavens! 
BEN: Blimey, where did all this come from? Well, it was a police box, wasn't it? 
DOCTOR: What are you both doing in here? 
POLLY: You dropped your key. 
DOCTOR: How dare you follow me into the Tardis! 
BEN: The what? 
DOCTOR: The Tardis, sir! This is a vessel for travelling through time and space! Why did you follow me? 
POLLY: I'm terribly sorry if we've annoyed you, Doctor. It was my fault, I'm afraid. 
BEN: Well, what's all this then. 
DOCTOR: And stand back from those controls. Those controls are used for dematerialising. 
BEN: Dematerialising? What does that mean? 
DOCTOR: You and this young lady are experiencing it. You are now travelling through time and space. 
BEN: Yeah, well, make sure that I get back by teatime, Doctor. I've got to get back to my ship by tonight. 
DOCTOR: Young man, it's going to be a long time before you see your ship again. 
BEN: Hey? 
POLLY: Why? When are we going to land? 
DOCTOR: I don't know. That's the cause of half my troubles through my journeys. I never know. 
POLLY: Why not? 
DOCTOR: I have no control over where I land. Neither can I choose the period in which I land in. Oh, now, you see that scanner? That is what I call a scanner up there. We get a very good view of the outside. 
(The Tardis starts to materialise.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes. I think we've landed in some sort of caves. 
BEN: Yeah, well, thanks for the home movies, Doctor. Now if you'd just open these doors. 
DOCTOR: Wait, wait, wait, young man, we don't know where we are. We don't know if it's safe or what period we're in. 
BEN: Well, I'll take a little bet with you, ay? London, 1966, Fitzroy Square. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think it's quite normal. Yes, the temperature's all right. Well, I think you can leave, but watch your step. 
POLLY: What a relief. You had me nervous for a minute, Doctor. Come on, Ben. 
(The Tardis doors open.) 
DOCTOR: Oh dear, all this distraction. And I really thought I was going to be alone again.

[Cave]

(Outside the Tardis, Ben can't believe his eyes.) 
BEN: Crikey, look! 
(Beyond the cave mouth, waves crash onto a beach.) 
POLLY: Ben, I'm scared. What's happened to us? 
BEN: I don't know. Maybe he's some kind of hypnotist. Pinch me. Ow! Not that hard. Hey, wait a minute. 
(Ben is alarmed to see the Doctor locking the Tardis.) 
BEN: What did you do that for? 
DOCTOR: I never leave it unlocked, my boy. 
POLLY: Doctor, you must take us back. 
DOCTOR: I'm not going to take you back to London in the Tardis. 
BEN: Well, you refuse, hey? 
DOCTOR: My dear young man. 
BEN: Oh, come on Polly. We'll find our own way back. 
DOCTOR: Well, I suppose I shall have to chase after them. Quite incapable of looking after themselves. 
(Ben and Polly emerge from the cave onto a narrow strip of sandy beach.)

[Beach]

BEN: Look at this! 
POLLY: I don't believe it. Hey, isn't it exciting! 
BEN: Well, it might be if I wasn't so pushed for time. Come on. 
POLLY: But it's a super place. Whee! 
(The Doctor watches as Polly dashes off along the shore. He eyes the rugged cliffs to one side and the incoming tide on the other, pondering.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, I wonder. Yes, I wonder. 
BEN: Crumbs. 
POLLY: Ben, it's smashing! 
BEN: It'd be a lot nicer with a few houses and a bus stop. Got any idea where we are? 
POLLY: Looks like Cornwall to me. 
BEN: Cornwall? Are you sure? 
POLLY: Looks like it, me handsome. 
BEN: Oh, I don't know what this is about. All I know is I've got to get back to barracks. Come on, it'll take hours from here. 
POLLY: All right. Are you coming with us, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, yes! You may know where you are, my dears, but not when. Oh, I can foresee oodles of trouble. 
(Some way along the beach, Ben and Polly spot a path up the cliffs and begin to scramble to the top. Amused, the Doctor watches them climb.) 
DOCTOR: Oh dear, I suppose I'd better follow them. See that they don't get into any harm.

[Cliff top]

(Ben reaches the cliff top first and takes a good look around.) 
BEN: Here, look, there's a church. 
POLLY: So we are in our own time, after all. 
BEN: Yeah. You didn't really believe all that nonsense about past and future, did you? 
DOCTOR: We can't be too sure, my boy. 
BEN: Sure? There are millions of churches like that. 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious, most of them have been standing there for centuries. 
BEN: Yeah, well so have we here. Come on, I've got a train to catch. 
POLLY: Sorry Doctor, but we'd better find a station. We can talk on the train. 
DOCTOR: Oh, talk on the train, child.

[Churchyard]

(Polly examines one of the gravestones for clues to their location.) 
POLLY: No use, I can't read it. 
BEN: You'd think there'd be a few houses or something. I bet it's miles to a bus. 
DOCTOR: Well, there doesn't seem to appear any Victorian restoration. I think it could be any time after the 16th century. 
BEN: Only it's not. It's good old nineteen sixty six. 
DOCTOR: Well I don't think so, somehow. 
(The church door is suddenly flung open. An old man steps out brandishing what appears to be an antique flintlock pistol.) 
LONGFOOT: Hold fast, I say! 
POLLY: Oh, please. Would you put that gun away? 
LONGFOOT: Hold thy tongue, lad! 
(In her trouser suit, with her hair under a cap, the man has taken Polly for a boy. Cautiously, he approaches the Doctor.) 
LONGFOOT: You seem to be a gentleman, but why on foot with these lads as company? 
DOCTOR: Well, we stopped aside, sir, on our journey to walk along the cliffs and unfortunately we got lost. 
LONGFOOT: Thou art foreign? 
DOCTOR: No, no. We don't come from this part of the country. 
LONGFOOT: And there's no more of ye than this? 
DOCTOR: No, just the three of us. You see, we are travellers looking for shelter. 
LONGFOOT: And you came by road and not from the sea? 
DOCTOR: No, sir. Not by sea. 
LONGFOOT: Very well. I cannot give thee shelter but I can give thee sustenance and direction. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. 
LONGFOOT: Come. 
BEN: Well, he's a right one. What gear's he got on? 
DOCTOR: Yes, I'm afraid you're going to lose your bet, young man. That gentleman comes from the seventeenth century. 
BEN: Seventeenth century?

[Church vestry]

(Once inside the vestry, the old man offers his visitors some refreshment.) 
LONGFOOT: There's the brandy. 
POLLY: Oh, I'll just have a little water, thank you. 
DOCTOR: No, we don't touch it. I wonder if you could direct us to the nearest inn. We seek shelter. 
LONGFOOT: In time. In good time. I don't know thee, do I? 
DOCTOR: No, I don't think we've met before, no.
LONGFOOT: Aye, 'tis true. And you've seen no others on the road? No ships upon the sea? 
BEN: Nah. Didn't see a blind thing. Expecting someone are you? 
LONGFOOT: Speak when thee spoke to, sir! 
BEN: Well, I was only trying 
DOCTOR: Ah, Ben, Ben, Ben. No, sir, we met nobody and saw nothing. Are you, er, expecting some friends? 
LONGFOOT: Avery's boys are no friends of mine. Never said that. 
DOCTOR: Avery? 
LONGFOOT: You know not that name? Oh, then you're the happier for it. 
DOCTOR: And you are expecting this Avery? 
LONGFOOT: Him? Why, he's been buried these long years past. Ah, but his spirit rides. Aye, in the dark souls of those who follow in his wake. 
BEN: Was he a sailor? 
LONGFOOT: Who mentioned sailor? What would I know about the sea? I but tend this church. 
POLLY: Are you a priest then? 
LONGFOOT: A priest? The word of God touched me too late, boy. I'm the Churchwarden here. Name of Joseph Longfoot, Christian. 
DOCTOR: You appear to be afraid, sir. Can we help? 
LONGFOOT: Ye help? Against Pike's hook? No, thee cannot help. 
POLLY: Pike's hook? What's that? 
LONGFOOT: The blackest name I know, boy. So never say it to me face again! 
DOCTOR: Oh your hand, sir. Are you in pain? 
LONGFOOT: Nah. 'Tis naught. The finger's but bent. It'll mend. 
DOCTOR: Dislocated. 
(Longfoot cries in pain. The Doctor has quickly grabbed his hand and twisted the finger back into place.) 
LONGFOOT: Cured! Oh, your blessed hand 
DOCTOR: Oh 'tis naught, 'tis naught, my dear chap. Have another drink. We must be on our way. Goodbye. 
LONGFOOT: No, no, don't leave me yet. 
BEN: Well we must go, we've got to get back to the (gets a Look) to the beach. 
LONGFOOT: The beach? There is no beach. The tide'll be in. 
BEN: The tide! 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, of course, I remember now. Yes, yes, yes. We have to wait until the tide recedes.
POLLY: Come on, let's hurry. 
DOCTOR: We could, of course, stay, if you wish. 
LONGFOOT: No, this is no place for gentleman and lads. Go thy way. Go quickly while ye may.

[Churchyard]

( (A thunderstorm rumbles in the distance.) 
BEN: We must be in the seventeenth Century. 
DOCTOR: Well, thank you for your diligence, sir, and, the kindness of your 
LONGFOOT: Thou art a real gentleman. Go thy way quickly. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Thank you. 
LONGFOOT: Hey! A moment, sir. While at the inn, take care I say. Guard thy tongue. Think only of thy comfort and thy needs. 
DOCTOR: Yes. We only need shelter for the night. 
LONGFOOT: Heed my words. Be watchful. 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Goodbye. 
LONGFOOT: Goodbye. Hey! One more word, sir. If you should come this way again and find me gone, remember these words. This is Deadman's secret key. Smallwood, Ringwood, Gurney. 
DOCTOR: But what to? What's the purpose, sir? 
LONGFOOT: It's a secret worth remembering. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
LONGFOOT: For this kindness 
DOCTOR: Thank you. Thank you indeed. And I think that's going to be all right now. Yes. Goodbye, sir, goodbye. Come along. 
POLLY: Goodbye. Thank you. 
LONGFOOT: God bless. 
(Longfoot watches as the Doctor and his companions disappear along the road, then goes back inside the church. After a moment, a large, bald, muscular man in sailor's garb rises from his hiding place behind a gravestone. Drawing a long knife from his belt, he moves to the vestry door and goes inside.)

[Inn stables]

(A mile or so from the church, landlord Jacob Kewper is looking for the stable boy.) 
KEWPER: Tom! 
TOM: Aye, Master? 
KEWPER: There's business afoot. A message for the Churchwarden tonight. 
TOM: But I, I 
KEWPER: Go do as you're bid, boy! 
TOM: Aye, sir. 
KEWPER: Tell him, tell him that Kewper has had word from friends. 
TOM: Down the coast? 
KEWPER: A delivery can be expected soon. I'll tell him further when I've made arrangements. 
TOM: I'll tell him. Can I take the mare? 
KEWPER: Aye, and go now before the storm breaks. 
(Tom scrambles up onto the horse and rides away.)

[Inn]

(Caught out by the storm, the Doctor and his companions are soaked to the skin by the time they reach the inn. ) 
DOCTOR: You're the landlord, I presume, hmm? 
KEWPER: Aye, Jacob Kewper. And I've no rooms. We're full. 
DOCTOR: Oh, we only want rooms for the night, my friend. 
KEWPER: Strangers are not welcome in these parts. Nor are they always what they seem. 
POLLY: That's more or less what the Churchwarden said. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
KEWPER: Say that? 
DOCTOR: The Churchwarden said you could probably put us up for the night, but it appears that he was wrong. 
KEWPER: If he said that, you'll know his name. 
DOCTOR: Longfoot, sir, Joseph Longfoot. Now surely that name means something to you? 
KEWPER: A friend of his is welcome, sir, but not so strange travellers. Your pardon, sir. 
DOCTOR: Granted, granted. Now, rooms, a meal, something hot for us. Surely that's possible? 
KEWPER: It is, sir, and you'll be wanting dry clothes for the morning too, ay? 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes, yes indeed, yes. For the lads. And I think I shall be able to dry myself out with that lovely fire. 
KEWPER: It'll be done, sir. 
BEN: Well, my lad? 
POLLY: Ha, ha, very funny. I do wish everyone would stop calling me lad. It does make me feel very odd. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I think it better at the moment, my dear. What would they say to a maiden in trousers? 
BEN: Probably die laughing. 
POLLY: You would think it funny, You and your bell-bottom sense of humour. 
BEN: Oh, listen to our little dolly-rocker Duchess, then. 
DOCTOR: Watch your tongue, dear boy. 
KEWPER: I hope these will serve, man. 
POLLY: Oh, thank you very much. Thank you. Come on, help me sort these out. 
BEN: Look, Doctor, what I want to know is, how are you going to get us out of here? 
DOCTOR: Oh, we shall return to the Tardis, my boy, when the tide recedes and let's hope that we materialize in nineteen sixty six. 
POLLY: You don't sound very certain, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: No, I'm afraid I'm not, my dear. More likely we shall probably land in the far distant future. 
BEN: Oh great! The way things are going there probably won't be a navy when I get back. 
POLLY: Look, Ben, for the moment we're in the seventeenth century, somehow. We'll just have to like it and lump it. Here you are. 
BEN: Oh, okay. Well, it's a nice old pub anyway, isn't it. Yeah, and I'll bet the beer's better than they serve nowadays. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think they're somewhat suspicious of us. 
POLLY: They certainly don't seem to like strangers, do they? 
BEN: Yeah, I wonder why? 
DOCTOR: Well, I wouldn't worry too much about that, my dear, because I don't think we're going to be here long enough to find that out.

[Church vestry]

(Longfoot emerges from the crypt, rambling drunkenly to himself.) 
LONGFOOT: Who rob great ships on every sea! Who pillage crews without mercy! 
(He stops, suddenly sobered, as he sees he has a visitor.) 
LONGFOOT: Master Cherub!
(Played by character actor George A Cooper.) 
CHERUB: It's nice to see an old shipmate again, eh, Joe? We had good times aboard the Albatross when you was mate, ay? 
LONGFOOT: Them days is gone and past. 
CHERUB: Ah, but not forgotten. Not by your old friends, Joe. 
LONGFOOT: I'm no friend of yours. I'm Churchwarden here. A Christian man. 
CHERUB: You always had the leaning towards the Good Book. Holy Joe Longfoot, mate of the Black Albatross. 
LONGFOOT: No more I'm not. 
CHERUB: We miss you, matey. But most of all does the Captain. 
LONGFOOT: The Captain. Captain Pike? 
CHERUB: You owes him something matey. He wants what's his. 
LONGFOOT: I got naught what his. 
CHERUB: If you ain't got it, you knows it's whereabouts. Avery's gold. 
LONGFOOT: No Christian man'd touch it. 
CHERUB: We ain't all like you, Holy Joe. We ain't all afraid of the curse that's on it, and it's ours by right. 
LONGFOOT: Tis no man's rights. 
CHERUB: We'll decide that when we get the loot. 
LONGFOOT: Ha! You'll never find it. 
CHERUB: Won't we Joe, my old matey? Ain't you gonna to tell me, ay? 
LONGFOOT: You can't threaten me. I got friends here, powerful friends. 
CHERUB: They need to be to better Pike. 
LONGFOOT: Well, don't you think they couldn't. 
CHERUB: Where's your friends now, eh? Gone? The old man and his two lads. What does he know, ay? 
LONGFOOT: Know? Know nothing. I directed him on his way. 
CHERUB: Where to? Where to, say I? 
LONGFOOT: To the inn, for shelter. 
CHERUB: Who was he? What's he to you, ay? 
LONGFOOT: A passing traveller on his way. 
CHERUB: No, matey, I saw you a-whispering something in his ear. What was you saying to him, ay? 
LONGFOOT: Nothing. 
CHERUB: Joe, you wouldn't be trying to sell what you know to some strangers, ay? 
LONGFOOT: You can rot in hell! 
(Longfoot lunges for his gun, but Cherub is quicker. He throws his knife with deadly accuracy, the blade burying itself between the old man's shoulder blades.) 
CHERUB: You're a fool, Joe Longfoot. But before you goes to join your mates, tell me what I want to know. Speak up. 
LONGFOOT: (dying) Avery's curse on you, you black villain. 
CHERUB: Speak, damn your eyes! It wouldn't be like you to go to Davy Jones' silent, matey. So I reckon we best get on to that old fella and get our hooks into him.

[Churchyard]

(Leaving Longfoot dead, Cherub hurries out and signals to a man sitting high in a tree some way off. The signal is picked up and passed down a line to the beach, and then onto a ship in the cove.)

[Inn]

(Ben and Polly have dried off and changed their clothes.) 
BEN: Now, that's better. 
POLLY: Mmm. Rain's stopped. 
BEN: Here, I've seen a few shady customers in my time, but this crowd beats the lot. 
POLLY: They're fantastic, aren't they? 
BEN: Evening. 
CUSTOMER: Evening. 
BEN: Cheerful lot, Doctor, aren't they? 
DOCTOR: I think we would do well to remember the Churchwarden's words. 
BEN: What? That old rough neck? 
DOCTOR: To keep our thoughts only on ourselves. 
POLLY: I wonder why, though? What do you suppose they're up to? 
TOM: Sir, sir, quickly! Help! 
(Kewper silences Tom and draws him into the privacy of the taproom.)

[Taproom]

KEWPER: What's the trouble, lad? 
TOM: The Churchwarden, Master Kewper. 
KEWPER: Well, what of him. Drunk was he, as usual? 
TOM: No, sir. He was dead. 
KEWPER: Dead? How? 
TOM: Knifed in the back. He was smiling. 
KEWPER: Was he now? 
TOM: The door was burst wide open. No sign of no one though. 
KEWPER: No one else of our lads have been down there this night. 
TOM: The strangers were though. 
KEWPER: Aye, and who else would want to kill Joseph Longfoot, ay? 
TOM: None as I know of round here. He'd no money and no enemies, neither. 
KEWPER: Word's got to be passed on. You'd best tell your tale to the Squire. Ask him to come here as Magistrate. 
TOM: Bring him here, sir? 
KEWPER: As fast as the horse can go. Away with you now.

[Inn]

(Unaware that they are now murder suspects, the Doctor and his companions have finished their meal in the privacy of the inglenook. Polly fails to stifle a huge yawn.) 
POLLY: Oh, sorry. 
(Suddenly Cherub strides in with three rough looking sailors. He marches over to the Doctor.) 
CHERUB: I want you, old fella. 
(The Doctor turns slowly and rises to his feet.) 
DOCTOR: I beg your pardon, sir? 
CHERUB: Don't you come the gent with me, matey. We're going to have words together, you and me. 
BEN: Get your dirty hands off him, mate. 
CHERUB: You what, lad? 
BEN: I said lay off. What's he done to you? 
DOCTOR: I don't think I've set eyes on you before in my life, man. 
CHERUB: No, but we have a mutual acquaintance though. 
DOCTOR: And what do you mean? 
CHERUB: Joseph Longfoot. 
BEN: What, the Churchwarden? 
DOCTOR: Yes, he merely tried to help us. Barely an acquaintance. 
CHERUB: Was, you mean. You see, him and me, we had a little bit of a tizzy like, mate. 
POLLY: Dead. 
CHERUB: The trouble was, he forgot to give me an urgent message before he passed over. But he spoke to you, didn't he, ay? 
DOCTOR: And how do you know all this, sir? 
CHERUB: 'Cause I was keepin' look out, that's why. 
BEN: Well, you're wrong, see. 
CHERUB: Well, what I want is what he told him, so speak up, old fella! 
POLLY: Leave the Doctor alone. 
(One of the men clamps a grubby hand over Polly's mouth.) 
CHERUB: Doctor ay? Well, sawbones, speak up, or do I have to make you? 
DOCTOR: Don't harm them! 
CHERUB: Well, come quietly then. 
DOCTOR: And where are you taking me? 
CHERUB: You wait and see, sawbones. Daniel! 
(Powerless to resist with a knife to his throat, the Doctor is tied hand and foot, hauled over the shoulder of one of the pirates and carried away. Polly is shoved roughly aside when she attempts to stop them while Ben lies on the ground, having been viciously clubbed down in the struggle.)

[Inn yard]

(The Doctor is dumped onto a rough cart and covered in straw.) 
CHERUB: Go on before to the beach, ya scum! 
(The cart is dragged out of the yard by the pirates.

[Inn]

(Distraught Polly discovers that Ben is unconscious.) 
POLLY: Help, somebody! Help!

[Taproom]

POLLY: Help me! Please, help me! The Doctor, they've taken him! 
KEWPER: Who has? Who's taken him? 
POLLY: Those men! They were terrible and they've hurt Ben! You must help me! 
KEWPER: Why, is he bad then, this lad? 
POLLY: He's bleeding!

[Inn]

KEWPER: He's not dead though. Here, take his feet, lad. 
(Settling Ben in a chair, Polly tries to make him more comfortable.) 
KEWPER: Don't you worry, lad. Squire'll be here soon. 
POLLY: The Squire? What can he do? I want to get the Doctor back safely. 
KEWPER: The Squire's the law in these parts, cub. And guard your tongue when talking to your elders. 
POLLY: But you don't understand. They were threatening to kill the Doctor.

[Beach]

(The pirates drive the cart to the cliffs, where the Doctor is carried down to the beach and then bundled into a rowing boat.) p> [Inn yard]

(Meanwhile, Squire Edwards rides to the inn. ) 
SQUIRE: What's this I hear, Jacob, ay? 
KEWPER: Trouble, Squire. Strangers. 
SQUIRE: Oh, let's deal with it then!

[Inn]

POLLY: Ben. 
SQUIRE: Now then. So these are your strangers, eh? 
KEWPER: Aye, Squire, and this one's wounded. 
SQUIRE: Hmm? Oh, aye. He'll need binding. Tom. 
TOM: Sir? 
SQUIRE: Fetch cloth and water, and a drop of brandy, eh. 
KEWPER: Oh, I don't 
SQUIRE: Kewper. 
KEWPER: Oh aye, Squire. Go, Tom. 
POLLY: Will he be all right? 
SQUIRE: Aye, boy, he will. Now, tell me, where's your Master? 
POLLY: He's been kidnapped. You've got to save him. 
SQUIRE: Kidnapped? And who are the ruffians who did this, ay? 
POLLY: Well, there were four of them. 
SQUIRE: Before you tell me this tale, tell me about yourself. 
POLLY: Me? But the Doctor's the 
SQUIRE: Doctor? Oh, aye him. Well, let's not beat about the bush. I want to know who the three of you are and where you've come from? 
POLLY: But the Doctor will be killed if you don't do 
KEWPER: Speak when the Squire tells you. 
SQUIRE: If you want help, I want the truth. Sit a minute. Well?

[Black Albatross deck]

(The boat is rowed out towards a dark, sinister looking ship anchored a short distance out to sea, a pirate vessel named the Black Albatross. The Doctor is lashed into a chair and hauled aboard. On deck, Cherub cuts him loose.) 
CHERUB: Come, my beauty, I'll take you to the Captain. You'll find he likes a little conversation with a fine gentleman like yourself.

[Inn]

(Ben regains consciousness.) 
BEN: Oh, blimey, my head. Well, what happened? Well, where's the Doctor? 
POLLY: Ben, he's been taken and we're in trouble. 
BEN: Eh? How? 
POLLY: The big man over there, he's the Squire, and he insists on knowing who we are and where we're from. 
BEN: Oh, you haven't told him? 
POLLY: Well, of course not, but he won't help us if we don't speak. 
SQUIRE: So, you've come to, have you? I've told your young friend here, I want information. He's refused to give it to me. I demand to be told the truth. 
BEN: You'll get it when you got the Doctor back. 
KEWPER: You speak civil to the Squire. 
BEN: Well, why don't you all do something? Don't just stand there. 
SQUIRE: Be silent, sir! I hold you both to be knaves and rogues and of highly suspicious intent. And as Magistrate of this Borough, I'm hereby arresting both of you. 
BEN: Arresting us? What for? 
SQUIRE: For the murder of the Churchwarden. And for this villainous deed you'll be imprisoned until the next Assizes, and there punished accordingly.

[Black Albatross deck]

PIKE [OC]: Enter!

[Pike's cabin]

(Cherub shoves the Doctor into the Captain's cabin. A fearsome looking bearded man in fine clothes sits at a table enjoying a splendid meal. He is not pleased to be disturbed.) 
PIKE: Cherub, what in hell's name have you dragged in here now? 
DOCTOR: I demand 
PIKE: Silence! 
CHERUB: Holy Joe's dead, Captain. Dead before he'd tell his secret. 
PIKE: What's that ye say? 
CHERUB: But before he died he spoke with this old sawbones here. 
PIKE: Ah. 
CHERUB: The sawbones won't talk, not to me. 
(Rising to his feet, the Captain lifts his right arm revealing a vicious-looking barbed hook where his hand should be.) 
PIKE: Well, by thunder, ye'll talk to me. Or my name's not Samuel Pike! 
(The hook bites deep into the table top.)

Episode Two

[Pike's cabin]

DOCTOR: I can tell you nothing, sir. 
CHERUB: They talked, Captain. I saw 'em. Holy Joe whispered in his ear secret-like. 
DOCTOR: I do not know this Holy Joe that you keep referring to. 
PIKE: Holy Joe Longfoot, an old shipmate of ours. Blast his eyes. 
CHERUB: The Churchwarden to you, sawbones. 
DOCTOR: He was a member of your crew? 
PIKE: Him and me and Cherub was all mates together, serving under Avery. 
DOCTOR: Avery. 
CHERUB: Aye, Captain Avery. The sharpest skipper that ever sailed out of Bristol port. 
PIKE: Aye, and one of the blackest. Morgan was a woman aside 'a him. 
DOCTOR: Of course, of course. Avery the pirate. I should have known. 
CHERUB: Don't come the innocent with us, sawbones. You know what Joe was hiding. 
PIKE: He took plunder that was rightfully ours, and we mean to get it back, and you may lay to that. 
CHERUB: He died before he talked to me, but he told you something. 
PIKE: You're going to tell us, ain't ya. Ay? Ay? 
CHERUB: Oh, let me make him talk, Captain. 
PIKE: Old man, are ye truly a sawbones? 
DOCTOR: I would prefer you to use the correct term, sir. I am a doctor. 
PIKE: Well, Doctor, ye had best start using your cleverness. So talk, before I let Cherub have ye. 
CHERUB: Let me show him first, Captain, ay? Let me give him a taste of Thomas Tickler. 
PIKE: He'd be a credit to your trade, would Cherub, Doctor. A touch like an angel's wing he has with that blade. 
CHERUB: Sharp as a whistle, it is. Ever seen a head with no ears, sawbones, ay? Or what them Mexican Indians can do to a bloke's eyelids, ay? 
DOCTOR: You vicious fellow. Get him off my back! 
CHERUB: Don't you talk to me like that. Oh, Captain, give me the word. Just give me one minute. I'll have the words spilling out of him like blubber from a whale. 
PIKE: Well, Doctor? Will ye loosen your tongue or lose it altogether?

[Gaol cell]

(Ben and Polly have been locked up in the village gaol.) 
BEN: Oh, of all the bloomin' fixes to be in. 
POLLY: I don't know. I find it pretty exciting. 
BEN: Oh, you would. But I don't go a bomb on this tune, and I can't very well report back to a seventeenth century navy. 
POLLY: Ah, you've got no imagination, that's your trouble. It's great. 
BEN: Oh, great. Stuck in jail for murder. Oh, honest. Who'd have our luck? 
POLLY: The point is, how on earth are we going to get out of here? There must be some way. 
BEN: Well, there better be. I'm not going to swing for that old nut case at the church. 
POLLY: Ben! 
BEN: What? 
POLLY: Look in the corner! It's a rat! 
BEN: Oh, shut up screaming. You big baby. Be quiet. 
POLLY: Oh no. I can't bear them. Oh, please do something about it. Oh no. I hate 
(Tom appears in the window of the door.) 
TOM: What you screaming for? 
BEN: Oh, nothing, We're just happy, mate, that's all. 
POLLY: What's your name? Didn't we see you at the inn? 
TOM: Name's Tom. I've been put in charge of you prisoners. I've got the keys. But I'm not to speak with you murderers. 
BEN: But we didn't kill him. 
TOM: Only a stranger'd kill the Churchwarden. You're strangers. 
BEN: But we're not the only ones. What about the geezers who kidnapped the Doctor? 
TOM: No one else has seen them. 
POLLY: But they were there. How else do you suppose the Doctor would disappear? 
BEN: Oh, the daft nit. What'd he think it was, magic? 
POLLY: Ben, that's it. 
BEN: Aye? What is? 
POLLY: In the seventeenth century they were terribly superstitious. They still believed in witches. 
BEN: So what you going to do, fly out of here on a broomstick? 
POLLY: No, but I think I've got a plan. Now wait, look. If we get this straw. Oh no, the rat's in the corner! You get me some straw, will you please?

[Outside the Inn]

(Kewper has urgent business to attend to. He locks up the inn and hurries to the harbour. Here he boards a small boat and rows out towards the Black Albatross.)

[Pike's cabin]

(The Doctor is managing to maintain a brave face in spite of Cherub's heavy handed threats.) 
DOCTOR: If I am to reveal something of what I know, then I demand consideration, sir. 
CHERUB: Don't listen to him, Captain. There's trickery afoot. 
DOCTOR: Oh, I find your friend rather a bore, but you I think a gentleman. So let us talk like gentlemen. 
CHERUB: Captain? 
PIKE: What makes you think I like gentlemen, ay? 
DOCTOR: Well, it's quite obvious to the perceptive eye, sir. Your dress, your manner, your taste. Yes, you're the type of man that has raised himself to an exalted position unaided. Hmm, hmm. 
PIKE: Aye, with this to help me. 
DOCTOR: Oh, quite so, quite so. But you are neither a barbarian, or a savage. I can see that. 
CHERUB: Oh, Pike 
PIKE: Cherub, you've got a funny sense of humour. 
CHERUB: Aye Captain. 
PIKE: Well, Doctor, you talk sweet, but don't toy with me or you'll rue it. 
DOCTOR: My dear sir, I'm sure you can quickly see through any flattery of mine. 
PIKE: Aye, indeed I could. 
DOCTOR: So let us talk like men of the world. Be elegant, and with dignity. 
PIKE: Talk away. 
DOCTOR: May I sit down? 
CHERUB: Beware his tongue, Captain. 
PIKE: Make way for the Doctor, ye swab. 
DOCTOR: Thank you, my man. 
PIKE: Cherub, I'm entertaining a guest, and you ain't being very polite. 
CHERUB: But he's a snake, Captain. 
PIKE: One more word out of you and I'll slit your gizzard, right? Now, let us talk together like gentlemen. Eh, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Thank you, no. That would indeed be pleasant. 
PIKE: Wine, Cherub, to help the Doctor talk more freely. 
DOCTOR: One thing more, before we go on any further. 
PIKE: Aye? 
DOCTOR: Now that we understand each other, I think it would only be fair that if I impart the information you require, I should receive some small reward? 
PIKE: Aye. You'll get your reward, never fear. 
DOCTOR: In fact, a share? 
PIKE: A share? 
DOCTOR: Yes, indeed, yes. After all my dear Captain. Thank you. There is quite enough to go round, is there not? 
PIKE: For them that deserves it. Aye, well. 
DOCTOR: Well, here's to a better acquaintance. Mmm. Oh, yes indeed. Yes, a very fine old Madeira. Yes. Indicative of your general taste, sir, if I may say so. 
PIKE: Aye, ye may say so Now tell us what we want to know! 
(A sailor bursts in unannounced. His name tells his origins.) 
PIKE: What? 
JAMAICA: Captain! Boat to leeward. 
PIKE: Coming up on the sly, is she? 
JAMAICA: Gi' us a shout, all friendly. 
CHERUB: We got no friends hereabouts. 
PIKE: Aye. Cherub, ask them to kindly step aboard a while. 
CHERUB: What then, Captain? 
PIKE: If it's a revenue man, you can have him 
(Cherub leaves.) 
PIKE: And just in case they're friends of yours, Doctor. Jamaica? 
JAMAICA: Captain? 
PIKE: Take my guest to the galley. Give him food and wine. He's precious. 
JAMAICA: Aye, Captain.

[Gaol cell]

BEN: Okay? 
POLLY: Here goes. 
BEN: Right! 
(Ben knocks on the door.) 
BEN: Tom! Thomas me ol' mate. Tom! Come quick! Tom! Quick! 
TOM: Oh, what's your noise for now? 
BEN: Tom can you see Poll, er, Paul there? 
TOM: Aye? 
BEN: Well, quick Tom, open the door. Come in and help me. Quick, Tom, open the door! 
(Polly has made a straw doll which she swings to and fro with every appearance having gone into a trance. Tom enters the cell.) 
TOM: What's that? What's he doing? 
BEN: You see Paul, Tom. Well, he's the gibbet. 
TOM: Eh? 
BEN: He's been took over, Tom, by the spirit of his master. 
TOM: No. Such things ain't to be seen by human souls. 
BEN: His master, Tom, the bloke what was kidnapped. He's a warlock. 
TOM: A warlock! Heaven save us! 
BEN: Not us, Tom, you! 
TOM: Me? 
BEN: The old Doctor's a wizard, no less, Tom, and us two's his apprentices. 
TOM: You got the power? 
BEN: We have, Tom, from our master. Now, you see the gibbet? You see the fellow what's swinging here? 
TOM: That's a doll. Just a straw doll. 
BEN: Ah, sure mate. But it's more than that 'cos it's got a soul. Someone else's soul! 
TOM: No. 
BEN: It's our master, Tom. He's captured the soul of someone he holds responsible for us being here, and he's gonna do him in! 
TOM: Well, it ain't me. I ain't but lookin after ye. 
BEN: But there's one hair from your head inside that doll, Tom. 
TOM: No! 
BEN: Can you feel yourself swinging? 
TOM: It ain't my fault! It were the Squire that ordered it. 
BEN: It's too late, Tom. It's you there swinging! And in a minute that doll's gonna fall, and when it does 
TOM: Oh, sir, save me, save me. I swear it weren't my doing. 
BEN: Is that the truth, Tom? 
TOM: Oh, sir, it is. It is. Save me! Save me! 
BEN: Tom, there is a way. 
TOM: Tell me, sir. I'd do anything. 
BEN: The spell can only work if we're held prisoners. Now, if we were free? 
TOM: But, but sir, I gave my word to master Kewper. 
(Polly wails again.) 
BEN: Quick, Tom, before your doll falls. Your time's up this minute! Quick! 
TOM: Oh, sir, I'll do it. I'll do it! Wait a minute, sir. I'll free you. Oh, sir, have pity. Have mercy. 
BEN: Well done, Tom. We'll put a good word in for you, mate. 
TOM: Sir, am I safe now? 
POLLY: Take this, Tom. While you hold it my master will know you and nothing will happen 
BEN: Come on, Polly! See you sometime, old son. Hey, and remember. From now on you're one of us. Come on, this way.

[Gaol house]

POLLY: Ben, where on earth do we go from here? 
BEN: Well, not the inn, that's for sure. 
POLLY: I haven't got the faintest idea where the Doctor is. 
BEN: I know, we'll try the old church. 
POLLY: Yes, that should be safe enough. 
BEN: We might pick up some kind of clue there. 
POLLY: And maybe find out who really killed the Churchwarden. 
BEN: Yeah. Come on, down here.

[Black Albatross deck]

(Cherub welcomes their uninvited guest aboard.) 
CHERUB: And just who's this we have the pleasure of welcoming aboard, at? 
KEWPER: Jacob Kewper's the name. Innkeeper come to talk business. 
CHERUB: Oh? And how would you know of our business, ay matey? 
KEWPER: It's more in the manner of putting business in your way. 
CHERUB: And what would an innkeeper want with honest sailors? 
KEWPER: Ah no, master. That would be your skipper's ear if he'll but listen, at? 
(Kewper slips Cherub a gold coin.) 
CHERUB: Sounds like he might be interested. 
KEWPER: It'll be worth his while. 
CHERUB: Come below, matey. But belay any tricks, ay, Master Kewper?

[Pike's cabin]

(There is a knock on the door.) 
PIKE: Enter. 
CHERUB: A visitor, Captain, who says he'd talk of business. 
PIKE: Business? 
KEWPER: Aye, business to interest a merchant like yourself, sir, to our mutual benefit. 
PIKE: Aye? 
KEWPER: Brandy, silks perhaps? Or should I call it merchandise? 
CHERUB: Sounds dishonest, Captain. 
PIKE: Aye, it does, by Morgan's beard. 
KEWPER: The only man who would call such business dishonest would be a revenue man. 
(Pike spits.) 
PIKE: Master innkeeper, I keep a law-abiding ship here, and a clean one. 
KEWPER: There is nobody who doubts that, Captain. 
PIKE: And I'll have the ears of any man who thinks he'll land me before a judge. 
KEWPER: Oh, Heaven preserve us. 
PIKE: But I'm willing to do business with any swab I can trust and who trusts me. 
KEWPER: Trust. Aye, if there's smuggling to be done. 
PIKE: So that's your business. I'd know more of this before I drop anchor here, so talk up, man. 
KEWPER: And I'll not give details until we shake hands on it. But, I tell you, we are well supported. 
PIKE: I'd not prejudice my good name. 
KEWPER: Would you throw in your lot with the Squire, and the Churchwarden, ay? 
PIKE: Maybe. 
(Cherub steps forward and pinions Kewper's arms.) 
PIKE: But not with scum like you. 
KEWPER: What trick's this?! 
PIKE: The choicest apples, top of the barrel, Innkeeper? I've a mind to have word with this Squire of yours. 
KEWPER: I speaks for him! You'll do no business without me. 
PIKE: Better for you if he does, matey. Else there'll be another corpse put ashore with Joe Longfoot, ay Cherub? 
CHERUB: Indeed, Captain. 
KEWPER: Longfoot? The Churchwarden? You killed him. What for? 
PIKE: Because he crossed me, that's why. And nobody who crosses Pike lives to tell the tale. 
KEWPER: You're Captain Pike? 
PIKE: Jamaica! There's more to this than we reckoned, ay Cherub? 
CHERUB: Indeed there is, Captain. 
JAMAICA: Captain? 
PIKE: Fetch the Doctor, Jamaica. 
JAMAICA: Yes, sir! 
KEWPER: Why should you come here? 
PIKE: Your tongue is nigh as long as your ears, Innkeep. Careful we don't cut them both short for ya. We're going ashore, Cherub. 
CHERUB: What about the old Sawbones, Captain? 
PIKE: When we come back. Then's his time. You and the sawbones, both guests of mine till I return. 
(Jamaica reappears with the Doctor. Pike takes down a fearsome looking cat'o'nine tails from a hook on the wall.) 
PIKE: Treat them well and kindly, Jamaica. But if there's any funny business, why, use this on them. 
JAMAICA: Sure, Captain.

[Church crypt]

(Finding the church empty, Ben and Polly go down into the crypt.) 
BEN: Well, there's not much down here. 
POLLY: There's nothing up in the vestry, and we searched that thoroughly enough. 
BEN: You know, the old boy must have been bumped off pretty soon after we left. 
POLLY: Ben, perhaps the murderer was hiding down here all the time. 
BEN: Yeah, could be. 
(Polly moans.) 
BEN: Maybe he kept his money box down here, or something? 
POLLY: What? Oh, yes. He did look like a bit of a Scrooge, didn't he? 
BEN: Well, he was dead scared of something, I know that. 
POLLY: Yes, almost as though he was even expecting something to happen. 
BEN: Yeah. Hey, Polly! 
POLLY: What? Where are you? 
BEN: Listen, maybe the murderer will come back to the scene of the crime. 
POLLY: Oh, no! Ohm shut up, Ben. You are a fool. 
BEN: Yeah, maybe you're right, Duchess. Early days for Sherlock Holmes, I suppose. 
POLLY: Yeah, well, I'm not playing what's his name? Watson to you. Oh, dear, I wish we knew where the Doctor was. 
BEN: Yeah, and the Tardis too. In fact, if I know him, I bet he's back in it all comfy. 
POLLY: Do you think so? Well then we've jolly well got to find the Tardis too. 
BEN: Yeah, that's not such a bad idea. The beach wasn't far from here. Come on. 
(A rumbling, grinding sound stops Ben and Polly in their tracks. Ducking down to hide, they watch as one of the tombs swings aside and a dark cloaked figure emerges from a hidden passageway. As the man passes by, Ben knocks him to the ground.) 
BEN: Gotcha! 
POLLY: Ben, do you think it's the murderer? 
BEN: I'm not stopping to find out. Tie him up first and ask questions after, love. 
POLLY: Listen, if this is the murderer then we're in the clear. And then if we tell the Squire, now he'll help us find the Doctor. 
BEN: Oh, I'm not so sure. He was a bit thick-headed, that Squire. Too much like a petty officer for my liking. 
POLLY: Yeah, but we'll never find the Doctor without help. And only he can work the Tardis. 
BEN: Yeah, I see what you mean. I don't fancy getting stuck with this lot for good. 
POLLY: Listen, you stay here and guard him, and I'll go to the Squire and tell him we caught him, shall I? 
BEN: Well, hadn't I better go? 
POLLY: No, I'll go. I don't like it down here. 
BEN: Okay. Oh, look, Polly. Don't tell him about that, ay?. 
POLLY: No all right. I don't suppose I'll be long. 
BEN: Polly. Take care, love.

[Black Albatross deck]

PIKE: Well, what think ye, Cherub? Do I look presentable? 
CHERUB: As a picture, Captain, but for that. 
PIKE: Yes, my little pike will hardly be welcome at the manor, ay? 
(Pike removes his hook and gives it to the cabin boy.) 
PIKE: There lad, take care of that till I get back. 
CHERUB: Ready there below!

[Church crypt]

(Ben removes the gag from the bound man.) 
BEN: All right mate. Let's hear what you've got to say for yourself. 
BLAKE: Untie me at once, you rogue. Do you not know who I am? 
BEN: You tell me. 
BLAKE: I am Josiah Blake, the King's revenue officer. 
BEN: Oh yeah? Prove it. 
BLAKE: My word should be enough. 
BEN: Well, not for me it's not, mate. 
BLAKE: Untie me this instant. 
BEN: I'm sorry, old son, but I'm not taking any risks. You may be what you say, but then again you may not. 
BLAKE: And who are you, sir? Pray, tell me that. 
BEN: Well, I'm just a sailor. Only I got nabbed for the murder of the Churchwarden which I did not do. So, as you turn up on the scene of the crime I reckon you're a good suspect. 
BLAKE: I am here in the pursuance of my duty. 
BEN: Oh? And what's that? 
BLAKE: I'm after the smugglers, and I think I've found the route that they've been using. 
BEN: Ay? 
BLAKE: That passageway. 
BEN: Oh, sure, and I suppose the Churchwarden's one of them. 
BLAKE: Hmmm. 
BEN: Pull the other one, mate. It rings. 
BLAKE: What say you? 
BEN: Oh, forget it. 
BLAKE: But this is so, I tell you, in truth. The Churchwarden was suspected. 
BEN: Honest? 
BLAKE: I was hoping to confront the villain with the evidence of that passageway, but now that he's dead. 
BEN: Ah, you're stumped. You ain't got no proof. 
BLAKE: No, proof aplenty. That tunnel leads through a series of caves down to the beach. 
BEN: Down to the beach? 
BLAKE: Aye. 
BEN: You've just brought me good news, mate. 
BLAKE: Hey, where are you going? 
BEN: Well, just for a look. Won't be long. 
BLAKE: Hey, come back here! Stop in the King's name!

[Squire's hall]

(Pike and Cherub wait to see the master of the house.)
PIKE: There's style, Cherub, style. 
CHERUB: This would fetch a pretty penny. 
PIKE: Belay that, ye dolt. We are honest men, remember? Now, here is our plan. We'll find out all we need to know about these little villains. 
CHERUB: Smugglers, huh. 
PIKE: And we'll take their store, find Avery's treasure, and this into the bargain. 
(The squire's manservant, Birch, shows them into the study.)

[Squire's study]

SQUIRE: Ah, good morning gentlemen. Good morning to you. Will you take wine with me? 
PIKE: Nay, nay, sir Squire. We are come on a matter of business. 
SQUIRE: Business? So early in the day? What can be so urgent so early? 
PIKE: We were sent by a friend. 
SQUIRE: Friend? 
CHERUB: Jacob Kewper. 
SQUIRE: Kewper, ay? Then you must be 
PIKE: Merchants, sir. Honest merchants. 
SQUIRE: By my favourite mare, that's witty, Business, indeed, 
PIKE: The very word friend Kewper used himself, sir. 
CHERUB: Aye. 
SQUIRE: Aye. Where is the fellow. Should he not be handling this affair? 
CHERUB: Aye, that he is, sir. He's back at the ship accounting our various merchandise. 
PIKE: Aye, such silks, such brandy and tobacco. Aye, Squire, indeed. 
SQUIRE: Oh, this is worthy of a toast, gentlemen. I insist you drink with me. Brandy, eh? Silks and tobaccos. Well, here's to a fine cargo and a gallant captain. 
PIKE: And here's to a good landfall and no tales told. 
CHERUB: And so say I. 
PIKE: Forgive him, sir Squire. An honest fellow, but unused to the ways of gentlefolk. 
SQUIRE: Oh, no consequence, no consequence. Pray, have you breakfasted? 
PIKE: Aye, but I would remind you, sir, we still have business in hand. 
SQUIRE: Indeed. Now, what would Kewper have me do? 
PIKE: Sir, he thought you might spare the time of day to explain such petty matters as must trouble us poor sailors. 
CHERUB: Aye, where to land, where to leave the goods, and things. 
SQUIRE: Oh, as for delivery, 'tis at the church on the cliff top. Likely, eh? 
PIKE: Most suitable. But who will receive our goods, sir? 
SQUIRE: Ah, twas to have been the Churchwarden, bur he's been most foully murdered by renegades. 
CHERUB: Shame, such a holy-minded man. 
PIKE: But where are we to beach our boat, sir? 
SQUIRE: Ah, now I think it best if we 
(They are interrupted as Birch drags Polly into the study.) 
SQUIRE: Great Heavens! This is one of the very renegades who slew poor Longfoot. How did you escape? Well done, Birch. 
POLLY: Well done, nothing. I came here of my own free will, Squire. 
SQUIRE: You may go, Birch. 
POLLY: I came here to tell you that we found 
(Polly recognises Cherub.) 
POLLY: You! you're the one that kidnapped the Doctor.

[Pike's cabin]

(Jamaica watches with suspicion as the Doctor approaches Kewper and they speak softly.) 
DOCTOR: Tell me about my friends. 
KEWPER: It's bad news, sir. 
DOCTOR: Why, is there trouble? 
KEWPER: Aye, they are taken for trial for the murder of the Churchwarden, which was done by Cherub, sir. 
DOCTOR: Oh, good gracious. We must escape from here and try and help them. 
KEWPER: Aye, not only for the sake of your friends, sir, but for the sake of the whole village yonder. 
DOCTOR: But I don't understand you. 
KEWPER: Pike is the bloodiest pirate now alive, sir. No one has ever seen that deadly hook and lived. 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, I quite agree. A somewhat violent man. 
KEWPER: Why did he take you, sir? 
DOCTOR: Oh, because he thought that I held the secret of the treasure belonging to the deceased pirate, Avery. 
KEWPER: Avery's gold? Buried ashore? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes, he's determined to get it. Apparently the Churchwarden knew something about it. 
KEWPER: Then Pike'll have it, sir, or raze the village to the ground in the finding of it. 
DOCTOR: But the officers of the law? 
KEWPER: Oh, they'd be no match for Pike's men, sir. Once he's laid his plans, we and the village are lost. We must get back word to them, sir. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, I think I agree. Yes, well, bear with me, sir. I have a plan. 
(The Doctor raises his voice.) 
DOCTOR: Er, tell me, sir. Er, you play cards?

[Squire's study]

SQUIRE: I don't believe one word of this trumped-up story. Not a jot. 
CHERUB: Such a sweet young face and yet so wicked. 
PIKE: It smacks of a trap, ay, Mister Cherub? 
CHERUB: Indeed it does, Captain. Very dangerous. 
POLLY: But we are innocent and he took the Doctor. 
PIKE: I have none sick aboard. Wherefore should I need a sawbones? 
POLLY: I don't know but you took him. And I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't have a hand in the killing of the Churchwarden too. 
SQUIRE: Cease these vile untruths, boy! These gentlemen are goodly merchants. I vouch for them. You are a stranger here, as is your companion, and therefore not to be trusted. 
POLLY: But we haven't done anything. 
SQUIRE: A man is dead, boy. 
POLLY: We left him alive. 
SQUIRE: Oh. Then you did speak with him. There's a damning fact, indeed. 
PIKE: Out of the mouths of babes, ay? 
CHERUB: Such acts of violence in one so young. 
PIKE: Aye, young people are not what they were once, not in our time, ay Mister Cherub? 
CHERUB: Indeed not, Cap'n. Very wicked. 
SQUIRE: Now, who this poor fellow is you captured I know not. 
PIKE: Might he not be, er, one of our mutual friends, Squire? A revenue officer. 
SQUIRE: Oh, aye, indeed, it could be so. 
CHERUB: Then perhaps we should fall in with this young rogue's pot o' purpose. 
PIKE: Yes, recapture this villain's accomplice and let our man free. 
CHERUB: That were best. 
POLLY: Squire, you're being a fool. These men are villains. 
PIKE: Oh, come, come, lad. Do we look so black-hearted? 
CHERUB: Time's short if we're to prepare. 
SQUIRE: Aye, we'll ride this very minute, and take our prize with us. 
PIKE: Squire, do you not think this lad should be restrained a little, just in case of misfortune? 
SQUIRE: Aye, I do. A happy thought, Captain. 
PIKE: Here is cord. 
CHERUB: And here is silence. 
(Struggling furiously, Polly is bound and gagged.)

[Church crypt]

(Ben returns from the secret passage, delighted by what he has discovered.) 
BEN: What a turn-up for the books. You don't know what kind of good turn you done me, mate. 
BLAKE: I do not share your joyous feelings, boy. Untie me, I say. 
BEN: The passageway leads right down to the beach all right, to the very spot we've been looking for. 
BLAKE: Hey, boy, you one of these smuggling rogues after all? 
BEN: No, of course not. But it leads right down to where the Tardis is. 
BLAKE: The Tardis? What's that, a ship? 
BEN: Well, sort of, but you wouldn't understand. Any way, it's there all ready for us to get away. If only I could tell the others, we could all escape. 
BLAKE: Eh? Escape? 
BEN: Yes, escape! 
(The Squire descends the steps into the crypt.) 
SQUIRE: Stand fast, I say there. 
(Polly and Cherub behind him.) 
BEN: Polly! And you! 
SQUIRE: Recaptured again, ay boy? We'll have no more tricks this time. 
(Drawing his pistol, the Squire advances on Ben.)

Episode Three

[Church crypt]

BEN: He's the bloke that kidnapped the Doctor. 
PIKE: Wrong, lad. Don't deface the character of my dear friend. 
BEN: Look, Squire, why can't you believe us. 
SQUIRE: Hold your tongue. You're vagabonds, both of you, not to be trusted. Bind them, eh? 
BEN: What about this one? He's a right villain. 
SQUIRE: These gentlemen are honest merchants. 
BLAKE: Squire! Squire! Here! 
SQUIRE: Blake! What the blazes are you doing here? 
BLAKE: I'd be obliged if you'd release me, sir, before asking questions of me. 
SQUIRE: Aye, certainly, but I have no knife. One moment. This Blake is a revenue man. There's trouble afoot. 
CHERUB: Should I? 
PIKE: Nay, Mister Cherub, hold fast. What does he know? 
SQUIRE: Nothing. 
PIKE: Well, use him. Let him take these prisoners, as is his duty. 
SQUIRE: Aye, then we're free of them. 
BLAKE: Squire, won't you release me, sir? 
PIKE: Cut him free, Mister Cherub. 
SQUIRE: Aye, release him. You've laid hands upon one of the king's Revenue men, Josiah Blake. 
BEN: But we thought he was the murderer. 
SQUIRE: Be silent, sir! These pretty young vagabonds have murdered my Churchwarden. 
BLAKE: Joe Longfoot? 
SQUIRE: None other. They must be therefore taken to prison, and as Magistrate I place this duty upon you. 
BLAKE: I am a Revenue man, sir, not your Sheriff. 
SQUIRE: Nevertheless, you will do as I say. 
BLAKE: I am on orders from the King, sir, for the apprehension of smugglers. 
CHERUB: Could they not be smugglers too? 
SQUIRE: Aye, indeed. What say you? 
BLAKE: Aye, they could be. 
BEN: Look, we haven't done a thing. We didn't kill anyone. We haven't smuggled anything. Look, sir, you can take our word for it. 
CHERUB: Their tongues waggle o'er much for my ears. 
SQUIRE: Aye, agreed. 
BLAKE: Very well, I will take them with me. Thank you for saving me from these rogues. They will get the treatment they deserve. 
SQUIRE: Take my pistol. They're wily knaves. 
BLAKE: Oh, thank you, Squire. All right. Good day to you, Squire. All right, move, villains! 
(Resigned to their fate, Ben and Polly are forced to comply. Blake follows them up the steps, covering them with the Squire's pistol.)

[Pike's cabin]

(Under Jamaica's watchful eye.) 
DOCTOR: Now, sir, I hope this works. You may pick up any five cards. 
KEWPER: Aye. One, two, three, four, five. 
DOCTOR: Do you wish me to tell you? 
KEWPER: Aye! I have no fear of what lies therein. 
DOCTOR: Ah, such brave words, my friend, brave words. But these cards hold the secret to your life or death. 
JAMAICA: I can tell you that without cards. Death! 
DOCTOR: Do not mock that which you do not understand. 
KEWPER: Oh, come, old man. Tell me what the future holds. Read the cards. 
DOCTOR: Very well, my friend, very well. Be it on your own head. 
(The Doctor turns Kewper's chosen cards one by one. The Jack of Clubs, Jack of Spades, King of Spades.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, beware. Stand back, or you will affect the cards. 
JAMAICA: Ah. 
(The curious Jamaica backs off slightly. The last two cards are the Ace of Spades and the Jack of Diamonds.) 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes, that's very strange. And very disturbing. 
KEWPER: What do these cards mean? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid they're rather unpleasant. Yes, the first one represents yourself, innkeeper. 
KEWPER: I am no knave, sir! 
DOCTOR: Well, the cards have it so, sir. 
DOCTOR: And the second is master Cherub. 
JAMAICA: See a dagger? That's Cherub right enough. 
DOCTOR: The third is the king. The blackest villain of them all. 
KEWPER: Next, the ace? 
DOCTOR: Yes, and that is death itself. 
JAMAICA: The Captain. 
KEWPER: What, Pike? And this one, the Jack of Diamonds, what is he? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid I have no idea about that, sir, but I can assure you he will triumph in the end. 
KEWPER: Ah, 'tis all madness. 
DOCTOR: Well, you may call it what you wish. I know it's only cards, but sometimes they tell the truth. 
JAMAICA: About any man, like me? 
DOCTOR: Oh, yes indeed. Yes, yes. Aren't you afraid? 
JAMAICA: Me? Jamaica ain't afraid. 
DOCTOR: Very well then, my friend, shuffle for yourself and let's see them reveal your own fate. 
(Fumbling, the Doctor drops the cards. As Jamaica bends to pick them up Kewper clubs the sailor from behind knocking him unconscious.) 
DOCTOR: Well done, innkeeper. Now, a rope. Tie him up. 
KEWPER: A guileful trick, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, perhaps, perhaps, yes. 
KEWPER: It was a trick, was it not? 
DOCTOR: No time for idle speculation. We have to get away from this boat as soon as we can. 
KEWPER: 'Twill not be easy without being seen. 
DOCTOR: Yes, it's our only chance. 
KEWPER: Then we must try. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and we've got to hurry if I'm to help my friends. 
KEWPER: But first we must seek the aid of the Squire. 
DOCTOR: Yes, because he has them prisoner. 
KEWPER: But he is the Magistrate. He was but doing his duty. Once is he is informed, he will let them free. No doubt of that. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I think you're quite right, yes. It's better to have the law on our side, isn't it? 
KEWPER: In these dark days honesty surely pays. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I hope your fortune turns out all right, my friend. 
(Kewper and the Doctor move cautiously out on to the deck, sneaking past the crew who are occupied in a game of cards of their own. Kewper leads the Doctor back to his boat and then rows them back towards the shore.)

[Churchyard]

SQUIRE: I feel well free of these vagabonds. 
PIKE: Such guile and wisdom, eh Mister Cherub? A master of men, no less. 
CHERUB: Indeed, sir, a kid glove upon an iron hand. 
PIKE: I wish it were always so easy to guide the officers of the Revenue. But I have not the quickness of wit of ye, Squire. 
CHERUB: Such subtle ways gladden my soul. 
SQUIRE: Indeed, if one has the brains, 'tis pity they be not used? 
PIKE: Rid of both law and villainy. Indeed, sir Squire, I find myself trusting ye more and more. 
CHERUB: With you to lead us, sir, all fears are dispelled. How can we fail? 
SQUIRE: Indeed, we cannot. But I would surprise you more. 
PIKE: How is that, sir Squire? 
SQUIRE: Why, like this. 
(He triggers a secret catch on the side of a nearby tomb, and the lid of the sarcophagus slides aside. It reveals not a pile of ancient remains but instead an impressive collection of smugglers booty.) 
SQUIRE: The grave holds it's secrets, ay? 
PIKE: But few as worldly as this, ay? 
SQUIRE: Silks, tobacco and brandy, Captain. This is our immediate cache, you understand. 
PIKE: Aye? Then where are we to place our merchandise? 
SQUIRE: Why, upon the beach where you'll be met. 
CHERUB: Whyfore not here? 
SQUIRE: This is our domain, the sea is yours. Our routes and methods must remain our own. But have no fear, this will be emptied before tomorrow's tide.

[Squire's stables]

PIKE: Tomorrow night, then, sir, at the time arranged. 
SQUIRE: Yes, a small beacon will be lit upon the shore at two past twelve. There you'll be met. 
PIKE: What if there is any danger? 
SQUIRE: A second fire will be lit close by. 
PIKE: Why then, we are suited. Except for payment. 
SQUIRE: Oh, that's soon settled. Not here, not now. Over wine and food. What say you? 
(Pike and the Squire go inside the Hall. Cherub has been listening to their discussions from afar. When they have gone, he sets off back towards the coast.)

[Inn stables]

(Blake has forced Ben and Polly to walk back at gunpoint. Once inside, he approaches Ben, knife in hand.) 
BEN: Hey! 
POLLY: What are you doing? 
BLAKE: Well, is it not obvious? 
BEN: Well, yeah, but why release us, mate? 
BLAKE: I know 
BEN: Whose side are you on? 
BLAKE: I know you not, but of your tale and the Squire's, I would rather trust your word than his. 
POLLY: Well, thank goodness somebody believes us. Can you untie me then? 
BLAKE: Aye. 
BEN: Yeah, I was getting worried. 
BLAKE: I have not said I hold you in complete trust. 
BEN: Oh no, I know, because we're strangers. Anyway, mate, as long as you're against the Squire and those other two layabouts, we're with you. 
POLLY: But why don't you trust the Squire? 
BLAKE: Word of mouth has it that the Squire rules the smuggling ring, but as yet I have no proof. 
BEN: What, can we help? 
BLAKE: No, no. This calls for armed men. 
POLLY: Armed men? Are you expecting something to happen? 
BLAKE: Did you not observe the two men who were with the Squire? Seamen, both. 
BEN: Sailors? 
POLLY: Bringing goods for smuggling. 
BLAKE: Aye, more than likely, and soon. This night or tomorrow, they will land their goods. 
BEN: And then you'll be there to nab them. 
BLAKE: Only if I can get men in time. Otherwise I can do nothing. 
POLLY: But if these two sailors were smugglers, what would they want with the Doctor? 
BEN: Who knows? He's got a funny way of landing himself right in it all the time. 
BLAKE: This friend of yours, the one you call the Doctor, is he a learned man? 
BEN: Oh, not half. 
BLAKE: Oh, more's the pity. A soldier or a mercenary at this point would be mighty advantageous. 
POLLY: The Doctor may not be a soldier, but he's jolly crafty at getting himself out of trouble. At least, he was when we were in London. 
BEN: Yeah. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and why not here, my dear? 
BEN + POLLY: Doctor! 
POLLY: What happened to you? Where did they take you? How did you escape? 
DOCTOR: Oh, my dear child, my dear child, control yourself. Let it suffice that I did escape in the company of Kewper. You remember, the innkeeper? 
BEN: But he's in with the Squire. 
DOCTOR: Yes, that's right. Yes, yes. 
BLAKE: Kewper is thought to be deeply involved, and he knows me. 
(Kewper appears behind the Doctor.) 
KEWPER: We came to rescue you, lads. We know who killed the Churchwarden. 
POLLY: Who did, then? 
KEWPER: Well, the villain they call Cherub. 
BLAKE: The villain who is now involved in more villainy with your Squire. 
KEWPER: Hey, Mister Blake. 
POLLY: It's true. And what's more, Mister Blake knows that Ben and I are innocent and it's you and Squire that are 
BEN: No, Polly! 
KEWPER: It's a trap you set for me, is it? Did I but know that you were a revenue spy. 
BLAKE: No, Master Kewper. 
KEWPER: Stand from me, I say. Aye, Doctor, but that you saved me from death I'd slay you now. But the next time we meet, look not for pity then. 
(Kewper hurries to his horse.)

[Stable yard]

(Blake dashes after him but ducks back as Kewper brandishes his pistols.) 
KEWPER: Take that! 
(Kewper gallops from the yard.) 
BLAKE: Stop in the name of the law! 
(Kewper shoots at Blake.)

[Pike's cabin]

JAMAICA: Captain, they tricked me into it. I swear it was no fault of mine. 
PIKE: Aargh, ye black-souled scum! Escaped! 
JAMAICA: But, Captain. 
PIKE: I'll tear your liver out and feed it to the sharks, ye sea slime. 
JAMAICA: It was the old man, Captain. He cast a spell on me, I swear it. 
PIKE: I'll cast a spell on ye, me pretty death's-head. A spell that'll run from ear to ear. Escaped! 
JAMAICA: 'Twas the black arts, Captain. 
PIKE: Aagh. 
JAMAICA: Spare me, Captain. Spare me. 
PIKE: I'll keelhaul ye from here to Port Royal. Where did they make for? 
JAMAICA: I know, Captain. I know. 
PIKE: Then speak, boy, while ye still have breath. 
JAMAICA: I heard them speak, Captain. They said about going to see the Squire. 
PIKE: Ah, that buffoon, what good'll he be to them? 
JAMAICA: They said that he was the law. 
PIKE: Aye, had he a will he'd call the militia, but I doubt he'll do that. 
JAMAICA: Captain, do you think he would lay a trap? 
PIKE: It follows, Jamaica. 
JAMAICA: So we have to surprise them, Captain. 
PIKE: Ye speak straight, Jamaica. They expect us tomorrow night at two of the clock. 
JAMAICA: Then, we must go tonight at one. 
PIKE: Jamaica, ye'd have made a fine skipper but you're short on guile. Any dark of the night they'll expect us. We'll spike 'em. We'll land by day. Some will go direct to the church and loot the smuggler's horde. Me and Cherub will seek Avery's gold. 
JAMAICA: Aye, Captain, plunder the inn, the village, and the Squire's fine hall. 
PIKE: Aye, it will be a merry night, but not for ye. 
JAMAICA: Captain. Captain. I beg thee. No! No! No! Ahh! 
(Pike's hook flashes down.) 
PIKE: Fare ye well, Jamaica. 
(Wiping his hook clean on a lace handkerchief, Pike leaves Jamaica where he fell and goes in search of Cherub.)

[Black Albatross deck]

PIKE: Cherub! Cherub! Where in blazes of hell are you? Cherub! Where's Cherub? Speak, boy. 
SAILOR: Not aboard, Captain. Not aboard. 
PIKE: Not aboard? Where in Satan's name is he?

[Inn]

DOCTOR: Pike intends to sack the old church, and at the same time search for Avery's treasure. 
BLAKE: Indeed? Strange secrets, these. But when? 
DOCTOR: Well, I can't be exact, sir, but pretty soon. I should say tonight or tomorrow night. 
BLAKE: Ah, then help is desperately needed if these pirates are to be thwarted. 
DOCTOR: Yes, especially if, as Kewper thinks, that the village will be pillaged and burnt too. 
BEN: Aye, what for? 
BLAKE: 'Tis Pike's way. Death is second nature to him. 
DOCTOR: Yes, at least the smugglers will have prior knowledge of Pike's plan now that Kewper has escaped. 
BLAKE: If they're at each other's throats, this should give me the time I need to get men and arms. 
DOCTOR: Yes, be off with you, sir. 
BLAKE: Aye. Stable boy! Here, I say! 
POLLY: Perhaps they'll just fight it out between them. 
BLAKE: No, no, when their blood is up nothing will stand before them. Stable boy, get me my horse, quickly. Quickly, I say! Pray God I'll be back soon enough. 
(Tom brings out the horse. Blake mounts up and rides off at full gallop.) 
BEN: Well, we can leave this place anytime we like. 
POLLY: We can't get down to the cave until next low tide. 
DOCTOR: Oh, my child, explain yourself. 
BEN: Well, Doctor, in the crypt at the old church there's this secret passage. 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, you mean that place where the Revenue man came out of? 
BEN: Yeah, but you don't know where it leads to. Smack down to where the Tardis is. So, all we've got to do is get back to the old church, go down the passage, and we're away, mate. 
POLLY: Oh, thank goodness for that. 
DOCTOR: Yes. 
BEN: What's the trouble, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Well, I'm afraid, my boy, we can't leave at the moment. 
POLLY: What? But why not? 
DOCTOR: Yes, well I know it's really difficult for both you to understand, but I'm under moral obligation. 
BEN: Well, about what? We've got no ties here. 
DOCTOR: No, but it's this village. I feel that I might be responsible for it's destruction, and therefore I must at least try and avoid this danger until Blake comes back. 
BEN: Yeah, but you heard what Blake said. We wouldn't stand a chance against Pike's mob. They're a right bunch of yobbos. 
POLLY: We wouldn't stand a chance. 
DOCTOR: Ah, wouldn't we, my dear? 
BEN: Well, what does that mean? 
DOCTOR: Well, you seem to forget, young man, that I've already met Pike, and I know something that he doesn't. The clue to the treasure. 
POLLY: So, the poor old churchwarden did tell you something. 
BEN: Oh, what are you up to now? 
DOCTOR: Well, I think if we are able to find that treasure first, we might be able to bargain. 
BEN: Well, I don't fancy it. I can't see him standing around chatting. 
DOCTOR: Yes, and it's going to give us enough time for Blake to come back here, and the same time to save the people in this village. 
POLLY: It would be awful to do otherwise. 
BEN: Oh, a right couple of nut cases you two are. Oh well, all right, I'll try anything once. 
DOCTOR: Well said, my boy. Now, let's get down to the church and hope that our luck still holds out. Come on, come on. 
BEN: Hey Tom. Thanks again, mate. 
POLLY: Bye, Tom. (Tom watches his new friends disappear down the road, secretly rather relieved to see them go.) 
CHERUB: They've gone, haven't they, Tom. Be a good lad and tell me where, ay?

[Squire's Hall]

KEWPER: I tell you it is Pike. 
SQUIRE: I've been tricked, and by him. 
KEWPER: At least you've lived to tell the tale. 
SQUIRE: To think I've delivered our plans into his evil hands. What are we to do? 
KEWPER: We must play them at their own game, only more skillful, as with a fox. 
SQUIRE: I do not relish crossing swords with Pike's hook. 
KEWPER: If we but stick to clear thought we will not sink. And even better, we may profit. 
SQUIRE: How profit? 
KEWPER: His real reason in coming here was but to spy out the land. His greater interest lies in treasure. 
SQUIRE: Treasure? 
KEWPER: Avery's gold, or part of it. 
SQUIRE: Here? In these parts? 
KEWPER: Longfoot, the Churchwarden, was at one time one of this notorious band. They tracked him to his lair, knowing him to have the gold or secret access to it. They now firmly believe that it is hidden below the church. 
SQUIRE: Avery's gold? 
KEWPER: A dream to conjure with. 
SQUIRE: Indeed, and hidden within our grasp, ay? But don't men say this gold is tainted? 
KEWPER: Any villainy would be worthwhile for this end. So we must act. 
SQUIRE: But how? And without bloodshed. 
KEWPER: Well, by guile, I say. They will come soon, so we must come the sooner. 
SQUIRE: Aye, forestall the villains and leave them nothing. 
KEWPER: Aye, but later this night they will be upon us without a doubt. Thus, a trap must be laid. 
SQUIRE: Aye, we have the time. 
KEWPER: Once we have the treasure, we are made men. But they are to be crushed, or we are dead men. 
SQUIRE: But I have told him of the shore and the tomb wherein our store is hid. 
KEWPER: Then we know the path that they must follow this night. So, twenty hidden muskets and they are done for. 
SQUIRE: Aye, and here's a triumph for law and order.
KEWPER: Ah, indeed. But first to the church and Avery's gold. 
SQUIRE: Aye, away. Come man. Birch, I say!

[Squire's stable yard]

SQUIRE: Have we no clue, no knowledge of any burial place? 
KEWPER: No one I know save the strange doctor knows Longfoot's secret. 
SQUIRE: Then we must search even harder. 
KEWPER: We ride alone? 
SQUIRE: To be sure, to be sure. 
(The Squire mounts his horse and then waits impatiently as Kewper's horse is brought out.) 
SQUIRE: No, we will admit no other soul into this but ourselves. Avery's gold snatched clean from 'em. 
KEWPER: I would see their faces at the empty chests. But sooner I would see them dead. 
SQUIRE: Now come on, hyup, hyup. 
(Agreed on their plan, Kewper and the Squire ride back toward the church. Meanwhile, riding hard, Blake urges his horse across open fields, determined to fetch reinforcements as soon as possible.)

[Churchyard]

POLLY: Well, here we are. Now where do we start looking? 
BEN: What did the Churchwarden tell you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, for heavens' sake boy, some kind of code and I'm trying to work it out. 
BEN: I'm sorry. 
POLLY: Let him get on with it. He'll tell us when he's got it. 
BEN: Weird lot of tombstones, aren't they? 
POLLY: They're rather super, aren't they. Hey, let's try and find the oldest. 
BEN: Yeah, OK. Hey Duchess, have a butchers at this one. Fifteen ninety two! 
POLLY: That's not old, soppy. Don't forget we're not in the twentieth century. This is sixteen hundred and something. 
BEN: Oh yeah, I forgot. Hey, this one's a laugh. Henry Hawksworth, he did die, of drinking too much small beer when he was dry.
POLLY: Some of these old names are fantastic. Hey, listen to this. Lucinda Maltree.) 
DOCTOR: What did you say, dear? 
POLLY: Lucinda Maltree. 
DOCTOR: No, no, before. These names. Yes, yes, that's it! 
POLLY: What is? 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course. Dead man's secret. 
BEN: What? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, of course. That's the answer to the puzzle. Yes. All these dead people. 
BEN: What, here in the graveyard? 
DOCTOR: No. No, not here. 
POLLY: Hey, in the crypt! 
DOCTOR: Yes, my dear. Exactly! Good heavens, well, you are inspired. Come on, quickly.

[Church crypt]

BEN: Well what the heck are we looking for, Doctor? 
POLLY: What was the secret the Churchwarden told you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: It was some kind of rhyme. Now, let me see. Dead man's secret key. Ringwood, Smallbeer and Gurney.
BEN: Dead man's secret. Well, that means names on tombstones. But how does that help? 
DOCTOR: Well, we must find these names, mustn't we. Yes, that'll be the first step. 
BEN: Well look, don't you want to see the secret passage? 
DOCTOR: Oh yes, of course, dear boy, well, where is it? Where is it? 
BEN: Up here. 
(Ben leads the Doctor across to the far side of the crypt and activates the mechanism revealing the hidden entrance.) 
DOCTOR: Yes. Oh, that's very clever. Yes. Very clever indeed, yes. Now just shut it up again, will you. Then we can get on. 
BEN: Okay, you're the governor. 
POLLY: Ringwood! I found Ringwood. 
DOCTOR: Oh, good, my dear. Well, continue with the search. And then the sooner we'll have better you know, the sooner we find the secret. 
BEN: Hey, Polly. Gurney! That's two of 'em. 
POLLY: Only one more to go. 
BEN: Come on, Smallbeer. Let's have you. 
DOCTOR: Ah. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! Yes!

[Churchyard]

(The vestry door is open.) 
SQUIRE: Below the church, aye, in the crypt. 
KEWPER: Open? But this is strange indeed. 
SQUIRE: Are we forestalled? 
KEWPER: We will see. But we'd best proceed with caution. 
SQUIRE: Aye, they'd be few in number, I'd say. 
KEWPER: Aye, no guards, no horses. 
SQUIRE: Pike would be more watchful. 
KEWPER: And Blake would be better equipped. 
SQUIRE: Could it be this pestiferous Doctor? 
KEWPER: If it is, then providence is on our side, for he holds the secret of the treasure, of that I'm sure. 
SQUIRE: Then let us find him out. 
KEWPER: We will. 
(They go into the church.)

[Church crypt]

DOCTOR: Well now, we've found our three names. 
BEN: Well I'm blowed If I can see how it helps. 
POLLY: Nor me. 
DOCTOR: Yes, of course, yes. It would help if we found four names. 
BEN: What, another dead man's name? 
DOCTOR: Yes, exactly. Yes, exactly. 
POLLY: What are you talking about, Doctor? Tell us. 
DOCTOR: Well, my dear, I 
KEWPER: Aye, Doctor, tell us. 
DOCTOR: And what are you doing here, sir? 
KEWPER: The same as you, my friends. Seeking Avery's treasure. 
SQUIRE: Aye, he may not have murdered the Churchwarden, but this does indeed show you're more than innocent travellers. 
DOCTOR: And what name might yours be? 
SQUIRE: Edwards, sir, Squire Edwards, local magistrate. 
KEWPER: Oh, let's not waste time on formal greetings. The secret, old man. 
DOCTOR: For what purpose? 
SQUIRE: To forestall Pike, and 
BEN: And line your own pockets. Yeah, fine magistrate you are. 
KEWPER: Hold your tongue, cur. Riches are for them that takes 'em. 
DOCTOR: I hope you don't expect me to help you. 
KEWPER: You'll talk, Doctor, or these young sprigs will die for it. 
DOCTOR: Here, now. Be careful sir. 
SQUIRE: Nay, nay, Kewper, surely not. 
KEWPER: Oh, be not lily-livered now. This gold is not for weaklings. 
SQUIRE: I will not kill in cold blood. 
KEWPER: He knows the secret. He must be made to talk. 
SQUIRE: Not by this unholy threat. Let them be bound and we'll make our search ourselves. 
KEWPER: What, and waste precious time? This is madness. The threat alone and he will talk. 
SQUIRE: Not even that will I stomach, sir. Let us behave like gentlemen. 
KEWPER: Gentlemen? Was this gold got by gentlemen? Is it now to be got by kindness? 
SQUIRE: I will have my way, sir! 
KEWPER: Don't truss up thy temper, I say. 
(Unobserved, Cherub steals into the crypt armed with both knife and pistol.) 
SQUIRE: Rogue, I could have thee hanged if I wont. 
KEWPER: Threaten you me with the rope? Then you shall stand with me on the gallows. 
SQUIRE: You grow overbold. 
KEWPER: The rope will make more mark on your fine skin. 
(A knife flashes through the air, thudding into Kewper's back. There's a gunshot, and Polly screams.)

Episode Four

[Church crypt]

(Cherub has shot the Squire, then knelt to retrieve his knife from Kewper's back.) 
POLLY: Ben, do something. 
BEN: You maniac! 
CHERUB: Is there any more as fancies a free trip to Davey Jones, ay? 
DOCTOR: By stabbing your man in the back, sir? You had us all at your mercy. There was no need for you to kill Kewper. 
CHERUB: I fancied better odds than five against one, sawbones. 
DOCTOR: What is it you want of us? 
CHERUB: Why, the secret, of course. Where Avery's gold lies. 
DOCTOR: And suppose we refuse to tell you? 
CHERUB: Do you fancy these lads of yours meeting their maker so young, ay sawbones? 
DOCTOR: I'm not going to barter with you, sir. Where is your captain? 
CHERUB: Oh, you fancy you'll twist him round to your way, would you? 
DOCTOR: He would at least listen. 
CHERUB: Not here, matey. There's only one skipper here. Me. 
BEN: You're alone, then? 
CHERUB: That's right, matey. But I'm no fool, so one false move and I'll split you in two. 
DOCTOR: Leave this to me, Ben, my boy. 
CHERUB: That's right. Let the old fellow do the talking cause he knows the answers. 
POLLY: But what about the Squire? He's badly wounded. He needs help. 
CHERUB: Let him rot, the blockhead. 
POLLY: But he needs water. 
DOCTOR: Have some mercy. 
CHERUB: Mercy. Why not? What's a moment's kindness? Here, give him this pannikin. Come. 
(As Polly moves, Cherub grabs her, pressing his pistol to her head.) 
CHERUB: That's better. Now sawbones, talk or the young lad dies. 
(Unaware of the new threat facing his friends, Blake rides on towards the militia outpost. The Doctor draws Ben to one side.) 
DOCTOR: We must play for time now. Trust me. 
BEN: All right, you're the gov'nor. 
CHERUB: Enough jabbering, sawbones. Where's it hid? 
DOCTOR: Well, I must admit the Churchwarden did tell me something, but to be quite honest with you, I am baffled. 
CHERUB: What's the puzzle? 
DOCTOR: The dead man's secret key. Er, Ringwood, Smallbeer and Gurney. Were these names of villages around here? 
CHERUB: No, no. I know those names. Old Jack Ringwood. He had a wooden leg. He was the finest master gunner that never served his king. 
DOCTOR: And Gurney, what of he? 
CHERUB: Old Zeb, the ship's chandler. A fellow that sewed many a merchant into a sailcloth nightgown. 
POLLY: What? 
CHERUB: A sailor's shroud to you, boy. And Daniel Smallbeer, there was a man. Fight along the side of him and he was like a killer whale. 
DOCTOR: Good men, I take it? 
CHERUB: All four of them, aye. 
POLLY: Four? 
CHERUB: Four. Tim Desmond, he were Avery's galley boy. Now what else did he tell ye? 
DOCTOR: Nothing, I'm afraid, nothing. 
CHERUB: Nothing? Did you say nothing? 
DOCTOR: Now don't be hasty, please. I said I needed your help. Now this is how. 
CHERUB: And that's all he told ye? Four names? Four names to Avery's gold? 
SQUIRE: Avery's curse, what of that, ay? 
CHERUB: Avery's curse. You can have that for the sharks. 
SQUIRE: It's a curse men fear. Remember Avery's end? Did he not die a pauper? 
CHERUB: Aye, rotten with rum and madness in his tongue. 
SQUIRE: They say he bargained for his life. His soul in return for the souls of those who come after, seeking and finding the cursed treasure. 
CHERUB: And if you so believed it, why did you seek the gold, ay sir Squire? 
SQUIRE: Because I was a fool and ill led. Answer enough lies there, surely. 
CHERUB: Enough of this. Old man, you know more and I will hear it said. Tell me now what the riddle means or in one minute's time.

[Beach]

(Pike and his men land in force. They drag their longboats high up onto the beach, above the tide line.) 
GAPTOOTH: Quietly, my beauties, quietly. 
PIKE: Spaniard, find Cherub for me, wherever he is. 
(The Spaniard leaves and the remaining pirates swarm up the cliff path towards the church.)

[Church yard]

(Scouting ahead, Pike finds the graveyard silent and apparently deserted. Once he's sure it is safe, he signals to his men with a bird call. Warily the pirates emerge from hiding one by one and gather around Pike. The captain leads his men to the huge sarcophagus revealed earlier by the Squire as the smuggler's secret store. Pike searches for the lever that releases the lid of the tomb. At last he is successful and shoves the lid aside to reveal a generous stash of silks, spices and rum. One or two of the men have trouble containing their greedy instincts.) 
PIKE: Belay there. Gaptooth, there's your loot. 
GAPTOOTH: Aye, aye, Captain. Is it to be carried back straight away? 
PIKE: Nay. Unload the tomb. Set the goods upon the shore. We go at my signal. 
GAPTOOTH: It'll be dry work, Captain. 
PIKE: Broach a cask, then. 
GAPTOOTH: Aye, aye, sir. 
PIKE: When it be finished. 
GAPTOOTH: Aye aye, sir. Er, Captain, inside. Is there more loot there? 
PIKE: Did I say there was? 
GAPTOOTH: No, no! 
PIKE: Do as ye bid, ye dog, or I'll leave ye in the coffin as a souvenir. 
GAPTOOTH: Aye, aye, Captain. Get to it, lads. 
PIKE: Cherub. Fie, where's Cherub? 
(Pike enters the church.)

[Road]

(BLAKE and a squad of militia men are now approaching the outskirts of the village.) 
BLAKE: Hurry along, you men. 
SOLDIER: Idle dogs. On, men.

[Church crypt]

(Pike silently creeps down the steps behind Cherub.) 
CHERUB: Your time's up. sawbones, so speak. 
PIKE: What would you have him say, Cherub boy. 
CHERUB: Oh, here at last, Captain. I've got him for ye. 
PIKE: For me, you say? 
CHERUB: Of course, Captain. 
PIKE: Cherub, you deserted the ship. 
CHERUB: Nay, Captain. I knew there was some trickery afoot. Didn't I say so, time and again? 
PIKE: I never did trust that tongue of yours, Cherub. It was a might too like the archangel's. 
CHERUB: But I found the sawbones, didn't I? 
PIKE: Aye, and you'd have found the gold too, eh? 
CHERUB: But I was making him talk, Captain. See? He spoke of Holy Joe's riddle. He was going to spill the whole cargo. I wasn't going to let no one do you down, Captain. 
PIKE: No, Cherub? 
CHERUB: Well, he'd have nabbed it all for himself, see? He'd have done for us both. 
PIKE: Would he now? Do for Pike, would he? So that's the game, ay sawbones? 
BEN: Look, the Doctor wouldn't cheat no one. 
(Cherub brings his pistol to bear on Pike but the pirate captain knocks the weapon away with his sword.) 
PIKE: By the Black Albatross, ye met your doom now, my Cherub. 
CHERUB: Not from such a black pig as ye. 
(Pike launches himself at Cherub and the two pirates begin duelling, cutlasses flashing.) 
PIKE: I'll quarter ye, ye rat faced smiler. Only watch the hook, boy, for when it whistles then it is the end of ye. 
(As the two pirates circle each other, the Doctor, Ben and Polly move aside.) 
POLLY: Doctor, it's just like the Squire said. Avery's curse.

[Churchyard]

(The tomb is nearly empty and a keg of rum has been opened.) 
GAPTOOTH: Come on now, you bilge breath. Get on with it. 
SPANIARD: Ah stow it, Gaptooth. 
GAPTOOTH: And you, Spaniard, do as you're bidden. If Pike finds you idling here you'll lose your ears as well as your tongue. 
PIRATE: Go on, cut him, Will. 
GAPTOOTH: Stop. Beware of Pike. Now you've earned your jot and you shall have it. But you Spaniard, and you David, to the beach with you. 
(With extremely bad grace, the two pirates head off, loaded down with as much booty as they can carry between them.) 
GAPTOOTH: Here. 
(The remaining crew watch them go, passing the rum between them.

[Church crypt]

(The duel continues. Focused on each other, Pike and Cherub have no thought for the Doctor and his companions.) 
BEN: Right, now's our chance. Down the tunnel. 
DOCTOR: Yes, get Polly back to the Tardis, and I will follow immediately Blake returns with the men. 
POLLY: But I can't leave you here alone. 
DOCTOR: There is no other way, child. Without either of you they can't hold a hostage for me to force my hand. 
BEN: Yeah, that's true. But, suppose they start on you? 
DOCTOR: Ah, I've done it before, my dear boy. We must play for time. 
(As Polly and Ben edge towards the tunnel, Cherub snatches up Kewper's fallen pistol and fires wildly at Pike.) 
BEN: Right. Come on, back to the Tardis. 
DOCTOR: Quickly. Quickly. I somehow don't think that master Cherub will be the winner. 
(The Doctor watches as Cherub edges forward, scanning the gloomy crypt for Pike who has ducked out of sight. Meanwhile, Ben has opened the entrance to the secret passage. He ushers Polly inside ahead of him.) 
BEN: Right, I'll give you fifteen minutes. If you're not back by then I'm coming for you. 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes. 
(The Doctor retreats into the shadows. Cherub moves warily past a large tomb, still looking for Pike who suddenly leaps from hiding. He catches Cherub by surprise, knocking the cutlass from his hand. In desperation Cherub throws his knife at Pike who dodges aside easily. Now unarmed, Cherub backs away, then slips and falls back, tumbling to the ground beneath a large stone angel. Mercilessly Pike closes in for the kill.) 
PIKE: Well, my Cherub, you'll not need prayers in this company, ay? 
(Pike runs Cherub through with his sword.) 
PIKE: Back to your hell hole, Cherub! 
(Cherub lies dead at Pike's feet.) 
PIKE: Now, old man, the time has come. 
DOCTOR: I think we agreed on that point previously. 
PIKE: The secret. 
DOCTOR: My dear Captain, I had every intention of telling you. 
PIKE: And that's why ye fled me ship? 
DOCTOR: I had no choice. My friends are in danger. 
PIKE: Aye, those two lads. Where are they stowed away, sawbones? Is there another passage out of this crypt? 
SQUIRE: Tell him nothing. 
PIKE: Still alive, ay, gentleman Squire? 
SQUIRE: Aye, I'll live to see you hanged. 
PIKE: Think ye so? 
DOCTOR: Stop! I made a bargain with you, sir, gave you my word. Don't you want me to keep it? 
PIKE: Aye. That sounds like the foolishness of an honest man. Speak on. 
DOCTOR: I wish to keep my side of the bargain, but I want to change the terms of my plan. That is, if I may.

[Beach]

(The Spaniard and David dump their haul of goods in an untidy pile and sit down to wait for the others. They quickly become bored and wander up the beach to explore the caves under the cliffs. They are perplexed to discover a strange tall blue box. Then venturing deeper into the caves they find the entrance to a tunnel.)

[Church crypt]

PIKE: Strange terms indeed. 
DOCTOR: I prefer to call them humane, sir. 
PIKE: And ye want none of the gold? 
DOCTOR: I would rather not touch it. 
PIKE: Ha. Heard of Avery's curse, ay? 
DOCTOR: I have given you all my reasons. I want no part of the gold, though perhaps I can deliver it to you immediately. 
PIKE: If I keep my lads out of the village? 
DOCTOR: There is no need for innocent people to suffer. 
SQUIRE: Well said, Doctor. Well said. 
PIKE: I like my lads to be happy, sawbones. That way they work well. 
SQUIRE: You'd have Avery's gold and our stores, would you, villain? Will nothing satisfy you? 
PIKE: We have an uneasy conscience, have we, Squire? Ye lily-livered rogue. Ye dare to call to call me villain? 
SQUIRE: Oh, I've been a rogue, I frankly admit it. The generosity of this stranger has shamed me. But I never spilled blood in my villainy. I beg you as a fellow rogue, if you must, spare my poor villagers. 
PIKE: When the fever is in the lads' bones, nothing but blood will slake it. 
DOCTOR: Senseless destruction. 
PIKE: Tis by way of being a pastime with us gentlemen of fortune. Why should I stop them? 
SQUIRE: So, you admit it to be difficult, at? You'd rather let them run mad than test their obedience, ay, Captain? 
PIKE: No man defies me and lives to speak of it. 
SQUIRE: No, but you'll not give that one order, ay? A highly disciplined crew, in truth. 
PIKE: They'll do as I bid or die of it. 
SQUIRE: Would they? 
PIKE: Aye, they would. 
DOCTOR: Prove it! 
PIKE: Aye, I will. When I have the gold. 
DOCTOR: I suppose we must trust you? 
PIKE: Aye, ye must. And take heed of Cherub yonder, ay sawbones? 
DOCTOR: Have no fear, Captain. I am not likely to try and cheat you just as he did. 
PIKE: Out with it, then. Show me the gold. 
(Blake and the militia finally sight the church along the cliff top. Allowing the men a few minutes to catch their breath, Blake divides them into two groups.)

[Tunnels]

(Ben leads Polly through the darkness towards the Tardis.) 
BEN: Come on, ducks, we're nearly there. 
POLLY: Oh, good. Ow! Oh! 
BEN: You okay? 
POLLY: Ow, yes. How much further is it? 
BEN: I told you, we're nearly there. It's only about another hundred yards. 
POLLY: Well, look. You go back and get the Doctor then. 
BEN: But will you be all right? 
POLLY: Yes, I'll be fine. Look, hurry. I'll see you back at the Tardis. 
BEN: Okay then. Polly. 
POLLY: Yes? 
BEN: Put the kettle on.

[Cliff top]

(Having briefed the militia men, Blake wastes no time putting his plan into action.) 
BLAKE: All right, Sergeant, off you go. The rest of you come with me. 
(Blake plans to trap the pirates in a pincer manoeuvre. The Sergeant departs, taking one group of men along the road to the church. Blake will take the other group up into the crypt using the secret passage. Eager for action, the Revenue man leads his party towards the cliff path and the beach.)

[Church crypt]

DOCTOR: Now, let me see. The Churchwarden set me a riddle which involved four names. Ringwood, Smallbeer, Gurney and Deadman, which should be on that wall, sir. 
PIKE: Four names of Avery's crew in the old days. 
DOCTOR: Ha! Yes, it's there. Just there. 
PIKE: How come those names here? They died on the seven seas, all of them. 
DOCTOR: The original names were changed by the Churchwarden. 
PIKE: Aye. Like a marker, ay? 
DOCTOR: Yes, that is correct. And unless I am very much mistaken, sir, this flagstone is at the intersection of those fateful names. 
PIKE: Aye, and 'tis loose. Stand aside. 
DOCTOR: Indeed, I think that is what you seek. 
(Wedging his hook into the gap between the flagstones, Pike hauls up the slab, struggling for a moment before removing it to reveal a dark, square hole in the floor.) 
PIKE: What's this? I see nothing. 
DOCTOR: Well, how deep is it? 
(Pike reaches down into the hole.) 
PIKE: Still nothing, blast your eyes. 
(Pike's hook delves deeper.) 
PIKE: Nay, nay, what's this? 
(It emerges trailing a string of pearls.) 
PIKE: Ha! Ha! What now? Ha! What price your damned Avery now? What now, Squire? 
(The sounds of shouting and gunfire come from outside.) 
PIKE: What's that? If that is a trap, sawbones, I swear you'll lie beneath that slab yourself. 
(Surrounding the churchyard, the militia have succeeded in catching the pirates totally by surprise. Befuddled by rum they are no match for the heavily armed soldiers.) 
PIKE: Ahoy there. What's afoot! What in hell's name? Gaptooth, answer!

[Churchyard]

(The militia continue to press their advantage, picking off the drunken pirates one by one. Before long, the seafarers are forced to retreat into the church as the militia charge forward.)

[Cave]

(Limping out of the tunnel, Polly is delighted to see the Tardis, but before she can reach safety she is ambushed by David and the Spaniard. Twisting free, Polly scrambles back towards the tunnel, screaming.)

[Tunnel]

POLLY: Ben! 
(The Spaniard catches Polly, grabbing her arm and throwing her to the ground. Hearing noises from the tunnel, David advances into the gloom, his knife drawn. Up ahead, Ben has heard Polly's screams. As David creeps past, Ben springs on him from behind. They struggle for a moment before David is knocked unconscious. Polly fights back, biting and scratching. Suddenly Ben appears, launching himself at the Spaniard and knocking him off his feet. Polly twists away, the pirate rises and turns on Ben, knife in hand.)

[Beach]

BLAKE: Come on. 
(Blake urges the last of his men down the cliff path. They gather at the mouth of the cave.) 
BLAKE: All right, come on. Now quietly.

[Tunnel]

(Weapons drawn, Blake and his men move past the Tardis into the cave. Up ahead, the Spaniard has got the better of Ben and stands over him, knife raised. There's a gunshot, and the Spaniard falls dead, shot in the back by Blake.) 
POLLY: Mister Blake, thank heavens. 
BLAKE: Now stand aside, boy. Our work lies above. Keep close and in command. 
BEN: Hang on, Blake. I'm with you. Polly, go on back to the Tardis and wait for us there, okay? 
POLLY: All right.

[Church crypt]

(The last of the pirates have been forced to retreat towards the crypt, where a mass of men now fight on the steps. Below the, Pike struggles to retrieve Avery's treasure from it's hiding place, shouting encouragement to his men.) 
PIKE: Fight, ye black-hearted sons of traitors. There's gold for ye all if we can but board the Albatross. 
(At the back of the crypt, the Doctor tries to locate the mechanism to open the secret passage. Unexpectedly, the tomb slides aside, revealing Blake and the rest of his men.) 
BLAKE: Pray, stand aside, good old man. In the King's name! 
(Blake leads his men to join the fighting. As Pike realises what is happening, he stands and brandishes his cutlass at the Doctor.) 
PIKE: Sawbones, ye Neptune's curse! Ye've laid a trap and for that you'll die by the pike. 
(The Captain lunges towards the Doctor, trying to shove his way through the fighting.) 
BEN: Come on, Doctor, now let's get out of here. 
DOCTOR: No, I must try and help the Squire. 
(The Doctor edges around to where the Squire is propped up against a pillar, his clothes bloodied and his face very pale.) 
DOCTOR: Oh, thank heavens you're still alive, sir. Let's try and get him out of here. 
BLAKE: Captain Pike, surrender I say. 
(The last of Pike's are being cut down around him.) 
PIKE: And give over this treasure? Never! 
(He darts over to where the Doctor is tending the Squire's wounds.) 
PIKE: Sawbones, I'm coming for ye. See if your magic will help you now. 
(With the last of his strength, the Squire struggles to his feet to help fend Pike off. The Captain looms over the Doctor.) 
PIKE: Here's an end to ye, sawbones, damn your eyes. 
(The hook flashes. Blake's bullet finds its target, thanks to the Squire who managed to grab Pike's arm before it delivered the killing blow. As Blake and the Squire watch Pike draw his last breaths, Ben and the Doctor manage to slip into the secret passage unnoticed. The pirate Captain falls # heavily, his haul of Avery's treasure scattering around him. The route is dark and treacherous, but by now Ben knows the tunnel very well and helps the Doctor down towards the Tardis. Blake helps the Squire to his feet.) 
BLAKE: Thank ye, Squire. The day is ours. 
SQUIRE: Yes, quite so, quite so. I think we've managed very well, you and I. 
BLAKE: But where's the old man? I would offer my gratitude to him. 
(Looking around him, Blake realises that the Doctor and Ben must have left using the secret passage.) 
BLAKE: Godspeed, old man.

[Cave]

POLLY: Thank heavens you're both safe. Doctor, are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Oh, a little exhausted, my dear, otherwise I'm all right. Come along, let's get off.

[Tardis]

BEN: Here, I thought the Doctor nearly had it when old Pike got going. 
POLLY: What happened? How did you all escape? 
BEN: Well, Blake's mob beat them. 
POLLY: So they're all dead then, the ones who wanted the treasure. 
DOCTOR: Yes, superstition is a strange thing, my dear, but sometimes it tells the truth. 
(The Tardis dematerialises.) 
POLLY: Where will we go to now, Doctor. Will we go forward or back in time? 
DOCTOR: I have no idea. I have no control over such matters. 
BEN: Well, it better be 1966 or I'm in dead trouble, Doctor. Well, anyway, wherever it is, it can't be as bad as going back to them days. 
DOCTOR: My dear boy, it could be a great deal worse. 
POLLY: What's happened, Doctor. I'm freezing! 
BEN: Yeah, it's getting right parky in here. 
DOCTOR: Just look up at that scanner. We have arrived at the coldest place in the world!

[Tracking room]

(The Zeus 4 probe blasts off from Earth, it's two man crew on a routine atmospheric testing flight. The spacecraft is tracked from the underground control room of Snowcap Base at the South Pole. Here the team of international scientists and technicians is led by a physicist, Doctor Barclay, although the base itself is under the military command of General Cutler, an American who takes his orders directly from Geneva HQ.) 
GENEVA [OC]: Handing Zeus 4 to Polar base. Will you take control now, please? 
CUTLER: We have Zeus 4. Thank you, Geneva. 
DYSON: (bald) Snowcap to Zeus 4. Over to local control channel J for Jimmy. 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Over to J for Jimmy now. 
CUTLER: Good morning gentlemen. You lucky devils. Have a nice trip. 
SCHULTZ [OC]: (Australian) Why not come up and join us? 
CUTLER: The penguins might miss me. Take over, will you, Barclay? 
(Barclay is bespectacled and bearded.) 
BARCLAY: Sir. Dyson, give Texas Tracking the next orbital pattern, will you? 
DYSON: Right, will do. 
BARCLAY: Snowcap to Zeus 4. Morning, Blue, morning, Glyn. How do you read me? 
SCHULTZ [OC]: Loud and clear, Snowcap, loud and clear. Hey, we have a great view of your weather. How is it your end? 
BARCLAY: There's a blizzard and an eight force wind. Repeat your velocity for ground check please.

[Zeus 4]

SCHULTZ: Well, let's see. We have 18,250 at 0132. 
WILLIAMS: (African American) Williams coming in. Cosmic management is now complete. Are you ready to receive data? 
BARCLAY [OC]: Go ahead. 
WILLIAMS: Okay, Bluey, let him have it. Are you receiving it? 
BARCLAY [OC]: Yes, A one okay.

[Guard room]

(Below pin-ups of of young ladies in a state of undress, a young Italian private is reading a comic book and singing La Donna E Mobile. His American sergeant is peering into a periscope) 
SERGEANT: Man, it's blowing like crazy out there. All I can see is snow, snow and more snow. 
(On the surface, the blocky periscope protrudes a metre or so up out of the freezing ground, not far from the squat chimneys, aerials and access hatches that are the only external evidence of the base. As the periscope tracks slowly round, it misses the sight of a blue police box materialising a short distance away.)

[Tardis]

DOCTOR: Quite an arctic storm blowing out there. Come along, Polly, my child, with my cloak. 
(Ben is zipping up a parka, and Polly has found a fur coat and hat) 
POLLY: Hey Doctor, you've got the most fantastic wardrobe. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well I'm glad you approve, my child. 
POLLY: These are gorgeous. Where do you shop, Carnaby Street? 
BEN: Who do you think you are, Nanook of the North or something? 
DOCTOR: Oh now, now, now. Stop being so flippant. We don't know what we're in for outside there. Now come along, come along, come along. 
POLLY: There you are, Doctor. Are you sure you're going to be warm enough? 
DOCTOR: Oh, like toast my dear. Now, did you find everything you want? 
POLLY: Yes, thanks. 
DOCTOR: All right, well let's go outside and investigate. Go along.

[South Pole]

POLLY: The Doctor was right about this being the coldest place on earth. I'm freezing already. 
BEN: Yeah. 
POLLY: Hey, what's this? 
BEN: Well, watch it Polly. 
POLLY: It's some kind of an aerial. There must be something buried underneath here. Hey, look over there. There's something moving. 
BEN: Don't touch it, Polly. It looks like some kind of periscope. 
POLLY: Is there some kind of a submarine or something down there?

[Guard room]

(The Sergeant gazes through the periscope in disbelief.) 
SERGEANT: Hey Tito, will you come over here? 
TITO: Oh, what is it? 
SERGEANT: Come over here, quick. I can see people! 
TITO: Sure, sure, lots of people. 
SERGEANT: And there's a woman. 
TITO: A woman. A woman? Hey! 
(Everyone pays attention.) 
TITO: Come on. (looks through the periscope) Hey, hey! Mama Mia. Bellissima. 
(He's looking straight at Polly. The Sergeant takes the periscope back and moves it around to see the Tardis.) 
SERGEANT: Looks looks like some kind of a hut. Quick, take those small arms. Get upstairs and get bring them down. Get moving!

[South Pole]

(Moments later, the Doctor, Ben and Polly are surrounded by armed guards.) 
BEN: I think we'd better go with them. 
(They all climb carefully down through the trapdoor.)

[Guard room]

(Down the spiral metal staircase.) 
SERGEANT: Move it. Come on. Hurry up. Come on. Let's go, let's go. Come on, pops, will you move it? Will you move it, pops? Let's go, come on! 
DOCTOR: Please stop that. Please, please stop that. 
SERGEANT: Just a moment, pops. Now, who are you, and what are you doing here? 
POLLY: Oh, we just landed outside. 
SERGEANT: What in? 
POLLY: Well it's a sort of spaceship actually. 
TITO: Ha ha! Some spaceship, boss! 
SERGEANT: You can knock off the jokes. 
BEN: She's not joking. 
SERGEANT: Look buddy, I want the truth, and quick. 
DOCTOR: Can you tell us precisely where we are, please? 
SERGEANT: You're at the South Pole base of International Space Command, and frankly, pops 
DOCTOR: Doctor. 
SERGEANT: Doctor, your story's gonna have to be awful good. 
POLLY: So you mean we are on Earth? 
BEN: Well you heard, the South Pole. 
SERGEANT: Oh boy. Tito, get the CO. 
TITO: He's a-not going to like it. 
SERGEANT: Get him! 
DOCTOR: Why don't you speak up, I'm deaf! (sotto) Who's the CO? 
BEN: The Commanding Officer, the boss. 
(Tito gets on the telephone.) 
TITO: Hallo, sir? Private Tito, duty guard here. Could you give a message to the General please? 
BEN: General? 
SERGEANT: General Cutler, the CO. 
TITO: Sir? I know, but this is an emergency! What's that? The General's not there? Well can-a you tell me where he is then? 
CUTLER: Right here, Private. What is it, Sergeant? 
SERGEANT: Ah, well, sir. 
CUTLER: Who are these people? 
SERGEANT: Well sir, they just appeared outside. 
CUTLER: What? 
SERGEANT: Yes, sir, as I said they just appeared. From a hut. 
CUTLER: A hut? 
SERGEANT: Yes, sir. Never been there before. 
TITO: That's a-right General. That's just the way it happened. 
CUTLER: Well? Who are you? 
BEN: Able seaman Ben Jackson, sir, Royal Navy. 
CUTLER: Then why aren't you with your ship? 
BEN: That's a bit difficult to explain, sir. 
CUTLER: Yeah, I'll bet my sweet life it is. 
DOCTOR: We don't intend you any harm, General, I can assure you of that. 
CUTLER: You can assure me of what you like but whether I'll believe you or not is another question. I haven't got time to deal with these now, but when I do you'd better have a good explanation. 
DOCTOR: I don't like your tone, sir. 
CUTLER: And I don't like your face, nor your hair. Sergeant, bring them into Tracking and put them under guard in the Observation room. I'll deal with them as soon as I have time. 
SERGEANT: Yes, sir!

[Tracking room]

(Cutler enters, closely followed by the Sergeant, Tito and his prisoners. The Doctor, Ben and Polly are shepherded through the room into the adjoining observation area.) 
TITO: OK, come on, move, avanti, avanti, svarro. 
CUTLER: All right, all right. Don't sit there like a lot of frustrated penguins. Get on with it.

[Observation room]

POLLY: Hey, isn't it smashing. It looks just like that rocket place in America. 
BEN: Yeah, but I wonder why there are so few people. I mean it's not like what you see on the telly, is it? 
SERGEANT: I don't know what you see on your TV, son, but this is General Cutler's outfit. Come on, you'd better take a seat. 
(Ben and Polly sit down.) 
SERGEANT: He don't like a lot of personnel. Cuts down to the bare minimum and works them right into the ground. We only spend a couple of months on this station anyway. We can't stand more than that. 
(The travellers take off their coats.) 
POLLY: I see. Hey, perhaps we can catch a lift back to England. 
BEN: Oh, I can't see the squire there giving us a free lift anywhere. 
DOCTOR: Well, I don't want to depress you both but I'm afraid we're not quite where you think we are. 
BEN: What do you mean? 
POLLY: What? 
DOCTOR: Well, just take a peek at that. 
(A calendar on the wall shows December 1986.) 
POLLY: 1986! Oh no, and I thought we'd be able to get home. 
BEN: Yeah, we're still at sea. Here, but that'll explain the few people. Them computers must do all the work now. Here, I wonder if they got to the moon yet. 
SERGEANT: Sure, don't you listen to the news? 
BEN: You mean you have sent people to the moon? 
SERGEANT: Yeah, an expedition just returned. 
POLLY: Well, what's this flight then? 
SERGEANT: Oh, this is just a normal atmosphere testing probe. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I see. A rocket testing site. 
(The Sergeant presses the intercom button.) 
SERGEANT: Hey, what's that? 
BARCLAY [OC]: An error? Where?

[Tracking room]

WILLIAMS [OC]: Looks bad. We're now over South Island New Zealand and reading a height of 1100 miles. 
BARCLAY: 1100? But that's impossible! Dyson, check what it should be, will you? 
DYSON: It should be 980. 
BARCLAY: No, it can't be. Let me try. 
DYSON: Let me do it. 
BARCLAY: No, you're right. 980 miles? They're out of position by more than a hundred miles! 
DYSON: Looks like it. 
BARCLAY: Snowcap to Zeus 4. Can you read me? 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Zeus 4 to Snowcap. Strength 8, over. 
BARCLAY: Take visual checks on Mars to establish position. Report back. 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Will do, out.

[Zeus 4]

WILLIAMS: Did you get that, Dan? 
SCHULTZ: Yeah. 
WILLIAMS: Okay, go ahead. Should be about 4-2-0. 
(Checking through the telescope.) 
SCHULTZ: No. It's 4-3-2. 
WILLIAMS: It can't be. Try again. 
SCHULTZ: I am. 
WILLIAMS: Come on, shake it up. We'll be back in sunrise in a bit. 
SCHULTZ: Cut it out, Glyn. 
WILLIAMS: Did you read conversation? 
BARCLAY [OC]: Yes. We're getting a Mars fix too. Call back. 
SCHULTZ: Hey, Glyn? 
WILLIAMS: Yeah? 
SCHULTZ: Well, er, take it easy but, er 
WILLIAMS: Come on, come on, what is it? 
SCHULTZ: It wasn't Mars I had. 
WILLIAMS: Well that explains it, doesn't it. Come on now, Dan, try again. 
SCHULTZ: No, listen, Glyn, there's something else out there. 
WILLIAMS: What do you mean? 
SCHULTZ: There's another planet out there! 
WILLIAMS: Another planet? 
SCHULTZ: Yeah. 
WILLIAMS: Yeah, you're right. There is something. I can't see properly but it reads as if it was in orbit between Mars and Venus. 
SCHULTZ: Yeah, that's it. Funny how I can't put me finger on it but it looks kinda familiar. 
WILLIAMS: Yeah. 
SCHULTZ: Came the dawn. 
WILLIAMS: Yeah. Well, I guess we've had enough Earth observations for a bit. Hello Snowcap. Hello Snowcap. We're now in dawn over San Francisco. Can you get the subject from where you are? 
BARCLAY [OC]: Snowcap to Zeus 4. You are very faint. Put up your power output please. 
WILLIAMS: It is up. 
BARCLAY [OC]: Reading you strength 3. Come in, please. 
WILLIAMS: Repeat, can you get the subject on your retina scope? 
BARCLAY [OC]: Can do. 
WILLIAMS: Hey. Hey, Dan. That's odd. 
SCHULTZ: Yeah? 
WILLIAMS: Fuel cells are showing a power loss. 
RADAR: I've found it, sir.

[Observation room]

(The Doctor has written something on a piece of paper from his notebook.) 
DOCTOR: Here we are. Well now, excuse me, my dear. Take this to your General please. 
SERGEANT: Me? You crazy? 
DOCTOR: Very well, then, take me to the General. I think perhaps I can help him. 
SERGEANT: Oh, I don't know. 
DOCTOR: Now look here, Sergeant. This is urgent. I insist.

[Tracking room]

SERGEANT: General, sir. 
CUTLER: Yes, what is it? 
SERGEANT: The old boy would like to have a word with you. Claims it's urgent. 
CUTLER: Okay, bring him over. But make it fast. 
DOCTOR: I think I know what you are going to see. 
CUTLER: How can you possibly? 
BARCLAY: What? 
(Barclay takes the paper and puts it in his back pocket.) 
CUTLER: Oh, get him back over there. 
DOCTOR: I've written down here what he will see. Now take your hands off me, please. 
(The Doctor is hustled away again.) 
DYSON: Barclay. It's not very clear but it's a planet all right. 
CUTLER: How could it be? Planets don't just appear. 
BARCLAY: It must be on an oblique orbit. 
DYSON: It's approaching quite fast. Barclay, couldn't it be 
BARCLAY: I know what you're thinking. Zeus 4 is out of orbit and a new planet has appeared. Therefore the new planet is influencing Zeus 4. Right? 
DYSON: That's about it. 
BARCLAY: We must get them down. 
CUTLER: An emergency splash zone? 
BARCLAY: Yes. Snowcap calling Zeus 4, come in please. Zeus 4, come in please. Do you read me? 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Yes, we read you loud and clear. 
BARCLAY: You are strength 2 only. Come in, please. Speak up. 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Fuel cells are showing a power loss. 
BARCLAY: Power loss? How much? 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Main tanks are down approximately

[Zeus 4]

WILLIAMS: Twenty percent. 
BARCLAY [OC]: We are going to bring you down. 
WILLIAMS: Roger. We need coordinates to correct orbit. 
BARCLAY [OC]: Stand by. 
SCHULTZ: What the heck's going on, Glyn? 
WILLIAMS: I don't know. Let's get down there and find out. 
SCHULTZ: Yeah. 
BARCLAY [OC]: Snowcap to Zeus 4, corrected co-ordinates are 0-0-4-8-2-0-8-2-3. 
WILLIAMS: Right. We're now correct. Out. Ready on attitude test, Bluey? 
SCHULTZ: Ready. 
WILLIAMS: Okay, go. 
(Schultz pushes the aircraft style controls forward.) 
WILLIAMS: Again. 
(Schultz triggers a second thruster burst. Suddenly the craft lurches to one side.) 
SCHULTZ: Look, look! 
(Through the porthole the horizon can be seen spinning crazily.) 
SCHULTZ: We're tumbling! 
WILLIAMS: No! Use the manual controls! 
SCHULTZ: I can't. 
(They both pull on the lever.) 
WILLIAMS: Come on. Come on. 
(Finally it works. They are exhausted.) 
WILLIAMS: What the heck's going on? I feel absolutely clamped down. 
SCHULTZ: It's like something's sucked out all the power out of my body.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Zeus 4 will splash down at 14:45 your time. 
DYSON: Thank you, keep checking. 
CUTLER: Yes? Yes, all helicopters to area 6 immediately. 
DYSON: Hello, Rome computer base. Final descent path please. Compute and report. 
BARCLAY: Snowcap to Zeus 4. Your flight path is now correcting. 
SCHULTZ [OC]: Power loss is increasing and something's happened to our limbs. We're both finding great difficulty in moving. 
BARCLAY: Well, you've been up there a fair time. It's probably just space fatigue. 
SCHULTZ [OC]: No, it's quite different. We had to operate the manual controls together. Neither of us could have done it alone. 
BARCLAY: Well, I, er, we have your descent path now.

[Zeus 4]

WILLIAMS: You'll have to bring us in this time round. We can't hang on any longer. 
BARCLAY [OC]: You must! We can't bring you in this time. You'll overshoot. 
SCHULTZ: We'll never make it, Glyn. 
WILLIAMS: Yes, we will, Bluey. Come on now. We'll check the re-entry controls. Ready? 
SCHULTZ: Yeah. 
WILLIAMS: Retros 1 and 3. 
SCHULTZ: Okay. 
WILLIAMS: Main chute cover. 
SCHULTZ: Yeah. 
WILLIAMS: Heat shield bolts. 
SCHULTZ: Right. 
WILLIAMS: Hey. Hey, Bluey, what do you make our position? 
SCHULTZ: We're swinging out again! 
WILLIAMS: Emergency! Emergency! We've lost flight path again. Give correction, please. Urgent!

[Tracking room]

BARCLAY: Will do. Stand by. It must be the planet. Its gravity is affecting the capsule. 
DYSON: What shall we do about it? 
BARCLAY: Well, first of all we must give Zeus 4 a new correction path. Will you do that? 
DYSON: Right away. 
BARCLAY: You try and get a better fix on that so-called planet and see what it is. 
TECHNICIAN: Right sir. 
CUTLER: It's clearer now.

[Observation room]

BARCLAY: You say you know what this planet is. Well, what is it? 
DOCTOR: Well I'm not quite sure, sir. Let me have another look into this instrument. 
DYSON [OC]: Zeus 4, Zeus 4, can you hear, over? 
BARCLAY: (intercom) Feed the retina scope into the observations room monitor. 
CUTLER: Look, Doctor Barclay, let's just get those boys down. 
DOCTOR: General, General, yes, it's just as I thought. Come and have a look at these land masses. 
CUTLER: Land masses? I don't see. I see what you mean. 
DOCTOR: Now, doesn't that remind you of anything? 
CUTLER: Remind? No, I don't think so. 
BEN: Yeah, it looks familiar somehow. 
POLLY: Yeah. Hey, Ben, look, that bit looks just like Malaysia! 
BEN: Oh, give over. No, hang on, isn't that? Well it looks like South America. But it can't be though! 
BARCLAY: But there is a similarity. 
(They appear to be seeing the globe spinning with the north pole at the bottom.) 
CUTLER: Nonsense, how could there be? 
BARCLAY: This is unbelievable. That's surely Africa? 
POLLY: Yes, certainly, and that is Malaysia! 
CUTLER: Ridiculous. There must be some reflection off Earth. 
BARCLAY: No, it can't be, there's nothing to reflect on. 
DOCTOR: And now, my dear Doctor Barclay, I suggest you look at that piece of paper I gave you. 
BARCLAY: Paper? Oh yes. (reads it) You knew! 
DOCTOR: Certainly. 
CUTLER: Knew what? 
BARCLAY: He has correctly written down what we have just seen and he did it before we saw it. 
CUTLER: It's a simple confidence trick, that's all. 
BARCLAY: No, I know when he gave me the paper. Now you clearly know something more about the situation. Can you be more explicit? 
DOCTOR: Yes, sir, I'm sorry, I'm afraid I can. You see, millions of years ago there was a twin planet to Earth and 
CUTLER: Oh, for heaven's sake!

[Tracking room]

DYSON: Roger, Zeus 4. We will give you more information. Over and out. 
CUTLER: Get me Geneva on the radio link. 
BARCLAY: I do think we ought to hear the old boy out. 
CUTLER: We'll see what Wigner has to say about this.

[Observation room]

POLLY: You're looking terribly worried, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Am I my dear? Yes, I'm afraid I am rather worried. 
BEN: What is it Doctor? What's up? 
DOCTOR: Well you see, Ben, I know what this planet is and what it means to Earth. 
BEN: And what does it mean to Earth? 
DOCTOR: Well, that pretty soon we shall be having visitors. 
BEN: Visitors? What, here? Well, who do you think's bringing 'em, Father Christmas on his sledge? 
DOCTOR: Oh, quiet, boy, quiet!

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: ISC Geneva? Put me through to the General Secretary, immediately. Yes, that's right.

[Observation room]

DOCTOR: May I ask who that was? 
SERGEANT: You're late, soldier. I was due for my break five minutes ago. Doctor, you don't know nothing about what's going on. That's the Secretary General of International Space Command, Mister Wigner.

[International Space Command]

(Wigner sits at an impressive desk, a large world map on the wall behind him. His international staff work around him.) 
WIGNER: This is very hard to believe, General. Are you quite sure? 
CUTLER [OC]: Yes sir, there's no doubt at all. 
WIGNER: Very well. Just a moment please. Get on to Mount Palomar. Ask them to provide us with a picture as soon as possible. Contact Jodrell Bank and ask them to get an exact fix on this. We must have data, and quickly. Let me know the moment you have any more information, General.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: I'll do that, sir, but there's one more thing. 
WIGNER [OC]: Yes? 
CUTLER: We have three intruders.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: Intruders? At the pole? Where did they come from?

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Well I haven't interrogated yet, sir, but one of them seems to know a good deal about this new planet.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: How can he possibly know? 
CUTLER [OC]: I don't know but I'm going to find out. 
WIGNER: Do that. Relay at once any further information.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: I'll do that sir.

[Observation room]

CUTLER: Now, suppose you tell me how you really came here. 
DOCTOR: Yes, well, I'm afraid all that's going to be rather difficult. 
CUTLER: Now just a minute. You turn up out of nowhere, a routine space shot goes wrong, a new planet appears and you tell us you know all about it. That puts you slap bang in the hot seat, right? 
DOCTOR: Hot seat? 
POLLY: But we've got nothing to do with it. 
CUTLER: That you're going to have to prove. 
DOCTOR: Well, I think if you allowed us to return where we came from 
CUTLER: You're not going anywhere. (intercom) Sergeant? 
SERGEANT [OC]: Yes sir? 
CUTLER: Have you searched that hut yet? 
SERGEANT [OC]: No, sir, we haven't. 
CUTLER: Well, why not?! Look, I don't want any excuses, get out there and do it immediately. Now, perhaps we'll get to the bottom of this.

[Guard room]

SERGEANT: Come on, Tito, we have to go break into a hut. 
TITO: What, that thing out there? 
SERGEANT: Yeah, that's right. Come on, hurry up and get dressed up. 
TITO: Oh, mama.

[South Pole]

(A small flying saucer lands a little way from the base. The Sergeant and Tito clamber up through the trapdoor onto the surface and go over to the Tardis. The Sergeant can't open the doors.)
SERGEANT: It's no good, Tito, we'll need a welding torch to get inside this thing. Get back inside and bring me out one. You'll need some help, okay? 
TITO: Okay. 
SERGEANT: Hurry up, will you, before I freeze to death. 
(Tito leaves. Three tall shiny figures approach.) 
SERGEANT: What the heck? Tito? Is that you, Tito? What's going on here? Who is that? Who the heck are you? 
(The Sergeant fires his gun twice point blank at the lead silver giant. It hits him across the neck.)

[Guard room]

(Tito has got the torch.) 
TITO: Okay Joe, that should do it. Okay, let's go.

[South Pole]

(Tito and Joe head to the Tardis.) 
TITO: Hey, here it is, Sarge. Hey, sir, what's going on? 
(The figure turns but it is not the Sergeant. Throwing off the jacket, it knocks Tito down as a second one takes out Joe. We get our first good look at these visitors. Bare human-like hands, silver suits with tubes and a box on the chest, and a blank masked face. A round device on the top of the head is fastened by tubes to where our ears would be.)

Episode Two

[Observation room]

CUTLER: That's the most fantastic story I've ever heard. 
DOCTOR: I can only repeat, sir, what I have already told you. You will get visitors from that other planet. 
CUTLER: Nonsense.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: What's the position on the capsule, Doctor Barclay? 
BARCLAY: Full instructions have been issued, General. I'm just doing the final ground check. 
CUTLER: What's the range? 
RADAR: 1250 miles, sir. 
CUTLER: How much off course? 
RADAR: About 230 miles. 
CUTLER: (unintelligible) 
RADAR: (unintelligible) 
CUTLER: I don't like it. Hello, Zeus 4. Cutler, Snowcap here. Now look, gentlemen, everything's under control, there's nothing to worry about. We're going to get you down here sure as God made little apples. 
(Williams is on monitor 5 and Schultz on monitor 4.) 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Okay. 
CUTLER: We'll be seeing you. 
(Barclay is taking a quick mouthful of drink.) 
CUTLER: All right, Doctor Barclay, this isn't a convalescent home. 
BARCLAY: All right. 
DYSON: Are you all right. 
BARCLAY: Yes. Ready? 
DYSON: Ready.

[South Pole]

(The three Cybermen - for it is they - put on the guards' parkas and move towards the trapdoor. The bodies are nearly covered in snow already.)

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: Get me Polar base. 
WOMAN: We are having trouble there, sir. 
WIGNER: Keep trying. 
WOMAN: Yes sir. 
(Wigner switches on a small television on his desk.) 
REPORTER [on screen]: And since it was first discovered at the South Pole rocket base

[International Television News Studio]

REPORTER: Reports have been coming in from observatories the world over confirming its' existence. 
(The reporter is passed a sheet of paper, which he reads from.) 
REPORTER: And here, straight from Mount Palomar observatory, is the first picture of our new neighbour in space. 
(The upside-down Earth with Australia at the top.) 
REPORTER: Some observers have reported that its land masses resemble those of Earth, but this is being hotly disputed in top astronomical circles and no general agreement has yet been reached. 
REPORTER: Jodrell bank, England, says the planet is approaching Earth but there is absolutely no cause for alarm. It won't come near enough to collide.

[International Space Command]

REPORTER [on screen]: So I repeat, there is no danger. 
(Wigner turns the television off.) 
WIGNER: Let's hope they are right. What about Polar base? Are you through? 
WOMAN: No, sir. We can't get them. 
WIGNER: What's happened? 
WOMAN: There's some interference, sir. 
WIGNER: What sort? 
WOMAN: Well, that's the trouble, sir. We don't know. It's enormously powerful and it seems to be coming from the base. 
WIGNER: We must get in touch with them.

[Tracking room]

BARCLAY: (into microphone) May I have your attention, everybody. This is very important, so please listen carefully. Final orbit commencing from base reference one is four minutes, ten seconds from now. Now, we've got a very difficult job on our hands and I want everybody to be on their toes all the time. If the capsule power falls too low I shall take over re-entry from here, and for that I want the entire team behind me. Now, base reference one commencing

[Observation area]

BARCLAY [OC]: Now. 
DOCTOR: Yes, they must bring them down. 
BEN: But why, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Because they can't last another orbit.

[Tracking room]

(The Doctor storms in, then stops as he spots three pairs of silver boots entering from outside. He shakes the General's shoulder.) 
DOCTOR: It's imperative that I talk to you, General. 
CUTLER: Get away, old man. Can't you see 
DOCTOR: (to Barclay.) You, will you pay attention? Will you?! 
(Cutler sees the three Cybermen and mistakes them for soldiers.) 
CUTLER: Get this man back into the Observation room. Sergeant, that was an order! Take that man back to the obs 
(The Cyberman takes off his parka. Polly screams. The other two Cybermen reveal themselves.) 
CUTLER: Back to your places. 
(Suddenly, the soldier who had been guarding the Doctor, Ben and Polly rushes towards the Cyberman with his gun raised. The Cyberman at the top of the landing aims a light device at him. Smoke comes from the guard's body, and he falls backwards to the floor.)

[Observation room]

POLLY: Oh. no! 
BEN: Come back, Polly. They'll blow your head off! 
DOCTOR: Hey!

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Now look, I don't know who you are or what you are, but we've got two men in space. If we don't act now we won't get them back alive. 
(The Cyberman opens its mouth but does not move any lips as it speaks in a strange sing-song tone that puts emphasis in all the wrong places.) 
KRAIL: They will not return. 
CUTLER: Why not? 
KRAIL: It is unimportant now. 
CUTLER: But We must get them back! When 
KRAIL: There is really no point. They could never reach Earth now. 
POLLY [OC]: But don't you care? 
KRAIL: Care? No, why should I care?

[Observation room]

POLLY: Because they're people and they're going to die!

[Tracking room]

KRAIL: I do not understand you. There are people dying all over your world yet you do not care about them. 
(Polly rushes in, with the Doctor and Ben behind her.) 
POLLY: Yes, but we could avoid their deaths. 
KRAIL: You will be wondering what has happened. Your astronomers must have just discovered a new planet. Is that not so? 
BARCLAY: Yes, that's right. 
KRAIL: That is where we come from. It is called Mondas. 
BEN: Mondas? 
BARCLAY: Mondas? But isn't that one of the ancient names of Earth? 
KRAIL: Yes. Aeons ago the planets were twins, then we drifted away from you on a journey to the edge of space. Now we have returned. 
BEN: You were right, Doctor. 
BARCLAY: But who or what are you? 
KRAIL: We are called Cybermen. 
BARCLAY: Cybermen? 
KRAIL: Yes, Cybermen. We were exactly like you once but our cybernetic scientists realised that our race was getting weak. 
BARCLAY: Weak? How? 
KRAIL: Our life span was getting shorter, so our scientists and doctors devised spare parts for our bodies until we could be almost completely replaced. 
POLLY: But that means you're not like us. You're robots! 
KRAIL: Our brains are just like yours except that certain weaknesses have been removed. 
BARCLAY: Weaknesses? What weaknesses? 
KRAIL: You call them emotions, do you not? 
POLLY: But that's terrible. You, you mean you wouldn't care about someone in pain? 
KRAIL: There would be no need. We do not feel pain. 
POLLY: But we do. 
(Suddenly Cutler lunges to a desk and presses a button.) 
CUTLER: Ha, that'll fix you! Europe will know there's an emergency here now. 
KRAIL: That was really most unfortunate. You should not have done that.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: Well, it seems to me there is a pattern. Number 1, a new planet appears. Number 2, the Earth is losing it's energy. Number 3, as the planet gets nearer, the energy loss gets worse. This in my mind connects the two. Exactly how I don't know, but a 
WOMAN: Sir! 
WIGNER: Yes, what is it? 
WOMAN: Emergency signal from the Pole, sir. 
WIGNER: What did they say? 
WOMAN: Well, nothing, sir. It went off again. 
WIGNER: Heavy static, emergency signal. Get them on the emergency microlink.

[Tracking room]

KRAIL: Switch on the radio and tell Europe that nothing further has happened and that all is well here. 
CUTLER: I'll do no such thing. 
KRAIL: That is an order. 
CUTLER: Go take a jump! 
KRAIL: Trigger pack. 
(Talon puts its hands on Cutler's head and he goes rigid. The Cybermen lay him down on a ledge by the stairs.) 
KRAIL: Stay where you are. 
POLLY: You've killed him! 
KRAIL: I have not killed him. He will recover. Now, someone must answer your commander in Europe. He is waiting. 
BARCLAY: I refuse. 
KRAIL: You. 
DYSON: Yes? 
KRAIL: Which are the communication controls? 
DYSON: They're over there. 
BARCLAY: Dyson! 
(Cyberman 1 walks over to the Zeus 4 monitors.) 
KRAIL: Stand aside. 
BARCLAY: What are you going to do? 
(Cyberman 1 hefts a light weapon.) 
KRAIL: You will see. 
BARCLAY: If you destroy those we shall be unable to keep contact with the capsule. 
KRAIL: Your commander is still waiting for your report. 
DYSON: For God's sake, Barclay, do as he asks. Do you want the place destroyed? 
BARCLAY: All right. Come in, Geneva. 
WIGNER [OC]: Snowcap. What's going on? We received an emergency from you on the microlink. 
BARCLAY: (stammering) It was a fault. We're looking at it now. I'm sorry about the false alarm. 
WIGNER [OC]: Where is this static coming from? We can hardly hear you, even on these bands. 
BARCLAY: It, well, I think it must have been the reactor. We had the moderator on for a time this afternoon and er, well, well that's probably it. 
WIGNER [OC]: I see. Contact us if you have any further reports on this new planet. 
BARCLAY: Yes, sir. 
(Transmission ends.) 
DYSON: Well done, Barclay. Now the space capsule will have another chance. 
BARCLAY: Now you must let us try and get in touch with our astronauts. 
KRAIL: I told you it is impossible for them to get back now. The pull of Mondas is too strong. 
BARCLAY: But you must let us try, please. 
KRAIL: It is a foregone conclusion. You are wasting time. However, if you wish to contact them I have no objection. He and his colleagues may use their equipment. Any attempt at deceit however, kill them at once. Remove the soldier. I will carry on detail. 
BARCLAY: Snowcap to Zeus 4, come in please. Zeus 4, come in please. 
WILLIAMS [OC]: We have you. Over. 
BARCLAY: Prepare to check orbital density. 
WILLIAMS [OC]: Ready. 
BARCLAY: As it was. 
(The Cybermen leave the soldier's rifle behind on the floor.) 
BEN: Right, Doctor. While they take him out, we'll make a break for it. 
DOCTOR: Hmm? 
BEN: We can get back to the Tardis! 
DOCTOR: Well how can we do that, boy? 
BEN: Well, we can make a break for it down that corridor, to the trapdoor and then bolt it from behind. 
DOCTOR: Nonsense, nonsense, they'll burn us down in a flash. 
BEN: We can do with that for a start. 
(Ben picks up the rifle.) 
DOCTOR: No, Ben! 
POLLY: No, they'll see you. Ben, for goodness sake! 
KRAIL: Stop! Come here. 
(The Cyberman is aiming his weapon at Ben.) 
KRAIL: You do not seem to take us seriously. 
(The Cyberman takes the rifle from Ben and bends it.) 
BEN: Blimey! 
KRAIL: Take him out and look after him. It is quite useless to resist us. We are stronger and more efficient than your Earth people. We must be obeyed.

[Projection room]

(Ben is thrown into the room and the door is locked.) 
BEN: Locked! Oh, now where've they put me? 
(The reel to reel projector and the cans of film on the shelves rather give it away.) 
BEN: Oh great. A projection room!

[Zeus 4]

BARCLAY [OC]: You begin exactly 60 seconds from now. Are you ready to go? 
SCHULTZ: Yeah, ready. 
BARCLAY [OC]: Our readings here show that you need forward correction of 7 degrees. 
WILLIAMS: Yes, that checks. We'll correct with attitude control. Okay, Bluey, go ahead. 
SCHULTZ: Hello, Snowcap. We've reoriented capsule. Attitude now correct. 
BARCLAY [OC]: Retro rockets to go in 20 seconds. After I give you the time check you'll come in on your own. Right? 
WILLIAMS: Will do. 
BARCLAY [OC]: Ready. 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, fire! 
WILLIAMS: Okay, Bluey, check velocity. I'll do ground check. 
SCHULTZ: We're not down to re-entry velocity. 
WILLIAMS: What? 
SCHULTZ: We're still at 14-5, we should be down to 11-2. 
WILLIAMS: We'll have to use the retros again. Quick man, quick! 
SCHULTZ: Fuel's gone. 
WILLIAMS: Hello Snowcap. Hello Snowcap, fuel's gone! Can't get back in! Any ideas? 
(Bluey puts on his spacesuit helmet.)

[Tracking room]

DYSON: Look at the radar now. They're accelerating! 
POLLY: Can't you do anything to help them? 
BARCLAY: No, the retro fuel's gone. 
DOCTOR: Terrible, terrible. 
RADAR: Emergency red and await instructions. I repeat, emergency red. 
DYSON: Their course is changing now, they're spinning out. The acceleration is enormous!

[Zeus 4]

(Smoke is bellowing out of everything. Glyn struggles to fasten his helmet on securely.)

[Tracking room]

DYSON: They're beyond escape velocity now. They can't possibly re-enter. 
(Monitors 1 + 2 flash white and then go blank.) 
POLLY: What happened? 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid the spaceship exploded, my dear. 
POLLY: You mean they're dead? 
KRAIL: Now perhaps you can see that your planet is in great and imminent danger. In order to save you we shall require information to be transmitted to Mondas. 
DOCTOR: Save us? 
POLLY: What about those poor men? 
KRAIL: Perhaps you will co-operate. Mondas drew the ship away. It was unavoidable. 
DYSON: Why? What is happening? 
KRAIL: I will require your name. 
(The Cyberman walks to Dyson and holds a small microphone towards him.) 
DYSON: Tell us! 
KRAIL: The energy of Mondas is nearly exhausted and now we turn to it's twin and will gather energy from Earth. 
BARCLAY: But but! 
DOCTOR: Gather energy?! 
KRAIL: Age, name and occupation. 
BARCLAY: But for how long? 
DYSON: My name is John Dyson, supervising engineer. 
KRAIL: Until it is all gone. Age. 
DYSON: But that means that the Earth will, will die! 
KRAIL: Yes. Everything on Earth will stop. Age, please. 
BARCLAY: But you can't calmly stand there and tell us we're all going to die! 
KRAIL: You are not going to die. 
DOCTOR: And how are you going to stop this energy drain from Mondas? 
KRAIL: Name and occupation please. We cannot. It is beyond our powers. 
DOCTOR: How are we going to survive?! 
KRAIL: Speak please. By coming with us. Age. 
BARCLAY: With you? 
KRAIL: Yes. We are going to take you all back to Mondas. Your age please. 
DOCTOR: His age is unimportant here! 
BARCLAY: That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard in my life! 
DOCTOR: You cannot for one moment

[Projection room]

(Ben tests a screwdriver against a tabletop.) 
BEN: Oh, I can just imagine trying to tackle one of them geezers with a screwdriver. 
(He looks at the projector.) 
BEN: Hey, wait a minute! If I was to turn this on the door, it might blind him! Yeah. 
(Ben turns off the lights, then turns on the projector. An old western appears.) 
BEN: Hah! I saw that film twenty years ago. 
(With the film lined up on the top of the door Ben starts banging on it.) 
BEN: Oy, come in here mate, you're wanted! Oy, come in here! 
(The Cyberman opens the door and cover its eyes. Ben grabs it's light weapon and backs away.) 
BEN: Now then, Fred! 
CYBERMAN: Do not resist. Give me that weapon. 
(The Cyberman is only six feet away from Ben.) 
BEN: I'm sorry, mate, I'm giving the orders here. Now look, get back. I'm telling you, get back! 
(The Cyberman raises his arm so Ben triggers the weapon.) 
BEN: You didn't give me no alternative!

[Tracking room]

BARCLAY: There's no scientific certainty that this is a dying planet. 
DYSON: Perhaps we'd prefer to take our chances here. 
KRAIL: You must come and live with us. 
POLLY: But we cannot live with you. You're, you're different. You've got no feelings. 
KRAIL: Feelings? I do not understand that word. 
DOCTOR: Emotions. Love, pride, hate, fear. Have you no emotions, sir? 
KRAIL: Come to Mondas and you will have no need of emotions. You will become like us. 
POLLY: Like you? 
KRAIL: We have freedom from disease, protection against heat and cold, true mastery. Do you prefer to die in misery? 
(Cutler wakes up. Cyberman 2 has his back to him.) 
POLLY: But look, surely it's possible for us not to lose Earth's energy? 
KRAIL: It is inevitable. 
POLLY: Then you don't mind if we all die. 
KRAIL: Why should we mind? 
DOCTOR: Why? Why?! 
POLLY: Because millions and millions of people are going to suffer and die horribly! 
KRAIL: We shall not be affected. 
POLLY: Don't you think of anything except yourselves? 
KRAIL: We are equipped to survive. We are only interested in survival. Anything else is of no importance. Your deaths will not affect us. 
(Ben has arrived on the landing. Cutler signals for Ben to pass him the light unit.) 
POLLY: But I can't make you understand, you're condemning us all to die. Have you no heart? 
KRAIL: No, that is one of the weaknesses that we have removed. 
(Cutler fires the light weapon at Talon then Krail. They die.) 
CUTLER: All right, get me Geneva, quick! Come on, let's have some action. Get rid of these things. 
DOCTOR: I don't think you should have done that, General. We may have learned a very great deal. 
CUTLER: Yeah, we may have lost a very great deal. Our lives. 
(Cutler picks up the telephone.) 
CUTLER: Put me through to the General Secretary. Is Zeus 4 down yet? 
BARCLAY: I'm afraid we lost them, General.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: We followed Zeus 4's last orbit from here. A terrible tragedy. 
CUTLER [OC]: Yes, sir, but I'm afraid that's not the hassle. We've had more visitors. 
WIGNER: Visitors? 
CUTLER [OC]: Yes, sir. They're part man, part robot. They come from this new planet, Mondas. Three of them broke into the base here and overpowered us. 
WIGNER: What's happened to them now? 
CUTLER [OC]: We overwhelmed them sir, but there'll be more on their way. 
WIGNER: Hold on, Cutler. Military bases all round the world must be put on immediate alert. Cutler, could you deal with another attack, with your limited resources? 
CUTLER [OC]: Yes, we can handle them. 
WIGNER: Good. Now, Cutler, we've got a special task for you. We sent up a single astronaut to help Schultz and Williams down.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: When did you send him up? 
WIGNER [OC]: He was sent from Woomera at 14:59 hours. 
CUTLER: Yes? You want me to take over the tracking? 
WIGNER [OC]: Yes. Establish contact immediately. One other thing. This is a dangerous mission. We needed for a brave man, so we asked for volunteers. 
CUTLER: So? 
WIGNER [OC]: Your son volunteered. Cutler? Are you there? 
CUTLER: Yes, sir. Yes I'm here. You've sent my son to his death. You realise that, I hope. 
WIGNER [OC]: We'll bring him down. 
CUTLER: What about the loss of power?

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: His spacecraft has double the reserves of Zeus 4.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: He's gonna need it. 
WIGNER [OC]: Good luck, General.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: If Cutler is right, then we are probably going to fight the first interplanetary war. 
(Radio telescopes scan the skies, including Jodrell Bank and Goonhilly if I'm not mistaken.)

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: All right, that's the information, gentlemen. Now get cracking, and establish contact with it. 
ALL: Right, sir. 
BARCLAY: But surely, General. 
CUTLER: No buts. Get the information from computer, and let me know when you've got it. 
BARCLAY: Right-o. 
(Cutler picks up the phone.) 
CUTLER: Security? Major, I want the guard doubled on the main entrance. Use section 1. Yes, and section 2 to the flight exit and tracks. Section 3 to the fuel tanks, check them over, and double the guard on them. What's that? I don't care what sort of a rest they're on! Get them out there, and do it quick! I'll get some action here yet. Missile control? Programme all Cobra anti-missiles for launch imminent. Stand in readiness and await instructions. 
POLLY: What a ghastly man. 
BEN: Yeah, I wouldn't want him on the bridge. 
CUTLER: We'll soon have this place sealed up like a bottle. 
DOCTOR: I think you rather underestimate the Cybermen, General. 
CUTLER: Oh, that's what you reckon is it, old man? Well, you're entitled to your opinions so long as you keep them to yourself! You did well, boy, to kill that soldier. 
BEN: I had no choice. 
CUTLER: Oh, don't apologise. He's dead, isn't he? 
POLLY: He seems to be enjoying all this. 
CUTLER: What's that? What's that you said? 
POLLY: I said you seem to be enjoying all this. 
CUTLER: Look, missy, I've got a personal stake in this emergency. That's my son up in that capsule. And you know what happened to the last one. 
POLLY: I'm sorry. 
RADAR: Sir! 
CUTLER: Yes? 
RADAR: General Cutler, sir! 
CUTLER: Yes, what is it? 
RADAR: Strong signal on the early warning, unidentified. 
CUTLER: Well, identify it, man! 
RADAR: Yes sir, it's. There are hundreds of them, sir! 
(On the radar screen a big bunch of small blips has appeared.) 
CUTLER: Hundreds of what? 
RADAR: Spaceships sir. In formation!

Episode Three

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Spaceships. That means only one thing, more Cybermen. Dyson, see if you can get hold of Zeus 5. I want to speak to my son. 
DYSON: Trying now, sir. 
(The Doctor starts swaying and moaning.) 
BEN: What's the matter, Doctor? 
POLLY: Doctor, what's the matter? 
(The Doctor collapses in their arms. They lower him gently to the floor.) 
BEN: What's happened to him? 
POLLY: Ben, do something quickly. 
BEN: Yeah, he needs medical help and quick. General! 
CUTLER: Yes, what is it? 
BEN: It's the Doctor, he's passed out. He's ill! 
CUTLER: Look, I've got enough on my plate without worrying about him. Get him down to one of the cabins and look after him. You, give him a hand. 
TECH: Yes, sir. 
DYSON: Coming through now, sir. 
CUTLER: Good. 
DYSON: Snowcap to Zeus 5. Snowcap to Zeus 5. How do you read me? 
TERRY [OC]: Zeus 5 to Snowcap. Reading you loud and clear. Over. 
CUTLER: Give me that. Hello, son. Zeus 5, are you experiencing any power loss? 
TERRY [on monitor]: Hey, that voice sounds familiar. 
CUTLER: Repeat, any power loss? 
TERRY [on monitor]: You sound very het up down there. Yeah, there's some loss of power when I'm in orbit on the same side of Earth as this new planet, but it picks up again on the far side. I guess I'm shielded there. What happened to Williams and Schultz? 
CUTLER: Well, er, you won't be meeting up and docking with them now. There's been a little trouble. So what we have to do is get you down now.

[Bunk room]

(Ben and Polly have settled the Doctor on a lower bunk bed.) 
BEN: Oh, a fine time he picks for a kip. Well, come on Polly, let's get back to the control room. 
POLLY: We can't leave him. 
BEN: He seems all right. His pulse and breathing are normal. 
POLLY: I don't understand it. He just seems to be worn out. 
BEN: Well, look, there's nothing we can do till the quack gets here anyway. Come on. 
POLLY: All right.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Yes, well, let me know if there's any change. Now look, son, we're getting readings on our screens down here of a large formation of spaceships. Seen anything up there? 
TERRY [on monitor]: Sounds kinda spooky. No, I've nothing to report so far. 
CUTLER: They're on your orbit about thirty miles below you. 
TERRY [on monitor]: No, I can't see anything, but it's pretty dark down there. 
CUTLER: Well keep your eyes open and report any sightings immediately, okay? 
TERRY [on monitor]: Check, sir. 
CUTLER: Now take care, son. We'll get you down as soon as we can. Out. 
DYSON: What do we do now? 
CUTLER: I only hope I'm right. Now listen, men, the situation as I see it is this. We've got three major problems on our hands. One, my son has been sent up on a foolhardy mission and we've got to get him down. Two, another visit from these creatures is almost a certainty. Three, the Earth is being drained of it's energy by this so-called planet Mondas or whatever it's called. 
DYSON: There's nothing we can do about any of them. 
CUTLER: That's where you're wrong, Mister Dyson, we can do something. We can destroy Mondas. 
BARCLAY: But that's impossible. 
CUTLER: Impossible is not in my vocabulary, Doctor Barclay. 
BARCLAY: And just how do you propose to do it? 
CUTLER: By using the Zee-bomb. 
BARCLAY: You can't do that! 
CUTLER: I can and I will. 
DYSON: What about the radiation effects on Earth? 
CUTLER: That's a risk we'll have to take. 
BARCLAY: But to use this bomb you'll have to get authority from Geneva. 
CUTLER: I'll get authority, fella, right now. Get me Geneva. 
BEN: What is the Zee-bomb? 
CUTLER: What is it? It's a doomsday weapon, Mister, and rightly primed it could split that planet in half. There are two or three at strategic positions round the globe. We have one of them and the means of delivering it to Mondas. 
BARCLAY: Secretary Wigner, sir. 
CUTLER: Secretary?

[International Space Command]

(Wigner is down to shirt sleeves.) 
WIGNER: Yes, General? 
CUTLER [OC]: The expected attack, sir. They've been sighted in force. 
WIGNER: Yes, I know. We've just got reports. They are coming in from all over the world. And to make matters worse, the energy drain is increasing rapidly. (to aide) Ouvrez les lignes des communications avec toute les (?) de monde. Allez-y. 
WOMAN: Toute de suite. 
WIGNER: Cutler, you must hold on as best you can.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Yes, sir. Request permission, sir, to take defensive action against this planet. 
WIGNER [OC]: What action? 
CUTLER: The Zee-bomb, sir. Mounted in the warhead of a Demeter rocket and fired at Mondas, it could destroy it.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: We can't take the risk. This might have disastrous effects, both on Earth and the atmosphere. We would have to consult our top scientists.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: But there isn't time for consultation. This is an emergency! 
WIGNER [OC]: We must know exactly what we are doing. 
CUTLER: But there isn't time, we'll have to take a chance!

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: No, General. You must take no precipitous action. This is quite out of the question.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Yes, sir. But do you do give me authority to take any action necessary against the Cybermen? 
WIGNER [OC]: Yes, of course. You must do all you can. 
CUTLER: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. 
(Cutler puts the phone down.) 
CUTLER: Right, gentlemen. Prepare to start the countdown. 
BARCLAY: But surely you haven't got the authority to use that bomb! 
CUTLER: Secretary Wigner has given me authority to take any steps necessary to stop the Cybermen. 
BEN: Yeah, but I bet that didn't include using the Zee-bomb! 
CUTLER: That is my order! 
BEN: Look, tell him he can't use this bomb, Barclay. We'll all go up with it! 
CUTLER: Now, look you. Ever since you came into this base you and that old man have poked your noses into things that don't concern you. Well, you've just done it for the last time. You, take them out of here and lock them up with the Doctor. 
POLLY: But just a minute, are you sure there's only one way of dealing with the Cybermen? 
CUTLER: As they are about to attack us, yes, I am sure. 
BEN: But there is another way. To wait. 
BARCLAY: I don't follow. 
BEN: Look, the Doctor said that it's not only Earth that's in danger, but that Mondas itself is in far greater danger. Otherwise, why have they bothered coming here? 
CUTLER: And just how did he figure that out? It's draining energy from the Earth, isn't it? 
BEN: Yes, but he said eventually it would absorb too much energy and burn itself out. Well, shrivel up to nothing. So all we've got to do is wait! 
CUTLER: Wait? Sure, wait until these Cybermen friends of yours get here and take over this planet. Oh no, mister, we're not going to wait. We're just going to accelerate the process a little. We're going to make it disappear just a little bit sooner, that's all. 
BARCLAY: But don't you see, General? A nuclear explosion on Mondas would deliver a terrific blast of radiation, enough to destroy all the life on the side of the Earth that's facing it. It might even turn into a sun, a sort of supernova. And it would certainly destroy the space capsule. 
CUTLER: That's a risk we'll have to take. So far as the capsule's concerned, Doctor Barclay, you are going to programme that bomb so that it hits Mondas at a time when my son's orbit has taken him to the far side of the Earth. 
BARCLAY: But there are no guarantees of success. 
CUTLER: I'm not arguing, Doctor. 
RADAR: They're coming in closer, sir. 
POLLY: I'm coming with you. 
BEN: No, love, you stay here. 
POLLY: But what about the Doctor? 
BEN: No, I'll look after him. Now look, You heard what Barclay said. I think he's scared, so work on him, get him on our side. 
POLLY: All right. 
(Ben is escorted out.) 
CUTLER: All right, Barclay, the bomb. Well? 
BARCLAY: You'll have to be present at the fusing, General. Dyson is not allowed to do it without you. 
CUTLER: Okay, Dyson, let's get on with it. 
POLLY: Can I stay and help? 
CUTLER: What do you think you could do? 
POLLY: Well, I could make some coffee or something. 
CUTLER: Oh, all right. I suppose we could do with some. Now, don't lose contact with my son, and keep track of those Cybermen. Let me know the moment an attack is imminent. 
R/T: Yes, sir. Snowcap to Zeus 5. Snowcap to Zeus 5.
(Cutler leaves.)

[Bunk room]

BEN: Doctor! Doctor! Oh, what's the use? There must be a way out of here somewhere. 
(Ben's penknife doesn't shift the lock.) 
BEN: Oh, they didn't make locks like that in 1966. 
(Ben spots the ventilation grill.) 
BEN: Hey, wait a minute. I wonder where this leads to?

[Bomb assembly room]

(Everyone is in protective masks and clothing.) 
CUTLER: Right, we'll fuse it now. 
DYSON: Yes, sir. 
(Dyson inspects the mechanism.) 
CUTLER: Well, come on Barclay. What are we waiting for? 
DYSON: Last minute checks, sir. 
CUTLER: This little baby's gonna solve all our problems. 
DYSON: Yes, sir. 
CUTLER: Well, at least you agree with me, Dyson. 
DYSON: If we get this away, do you think we stand any chance, sir? 
CUTLER: What do you mean? There's no alternative. 
DYSON: The old man could be right. It might be better to wait. 
CUTLER: Wait nothing. History is littered with guys who waited, and where did it get them? Nowhere. 
DYSON: There are the radiation effects. I mean, nothing is known, the results of this bomb could be quite fantastic. 
CUTLER: You've never talked so much since you came to the base, Dyson. What's the matter, you scared? 
DYSON: No, not exactly. 
CUTLER: Come on man, admit it. I am. I'm scared for that son of mine. That's why we've got to get this thing away, otherwise we'll never get him down. Well, come on you fellas. Time's short. Let's get moving. 
DYSON: We can start now. 
TECH: Sir. 
DYSON: Ready? Right. Seven, two, four, six, eight, eight, two.

[Tracking room]

BARCLAY: Well? 
R/T: Still can't raise Lieutenant Cutler, sir. 
BARCLAY: Well, keep trying, man. Keep trying. 
R/T: Snowcap to Zeus 5. Snowcap to Zeus 5. Come in, please. 
(Static.) 
BARCLAY: Let me know the instant you hear from him. 
R/T: Yes, sir. Try via the Hawaii relay. 
TECH: Right. 
R/T: Snowcap to Zeus 5. Snowcap to Zeus 5. Come in, please. 
POLLY: How do you like your coffee? 
BARCLAY: Oh, as it comes. 
POLLY: Are you trying to get in touch with General Cutler's son? 
BARCLAY: Look, you just keep your mind on making coffee, will you? I'm sorry, that was rude. You must be scared stiff with all this happening. 
POLLY: I am rather. 
BARCLAY: Well, try not to worry about it. 
POLLY: If Mondas turns into a sun and pours out deadly radiation, how much will it affect us? 
BARCLAY: I don't know. It may not affect us at all. 
POLLY: That's not what you said just now. 
BARCLAY: I know, but I'm not at all certain what would happen. 
POLLY: But what could happen? 
BARCLAY: Well, the radiation could affect us, and there'd be a certain loss of life. And the vegetation would, well, suffer badly for many years. 
POLLY: And you're prepared to just let this happen? 
BARCLAY: Well, what can I do? Cutler holds all the cards. 
R/T: 13 minutes to countdown, Doctor Barclay. 
BARCLAY: Right. 
POLLY: Can't we wait, fight off the Cybermen until Mondas is destroyed? It would probably mean the end of Cutler's son, but that's one life against millions. 
BARCLAY: Yes, but what can I do? If I don't follow the General's orders he's bound to, well, carry on on his own without me. You know, he's a very ruthless man. 
POLLY: Can't we pretend to follow his orders, but in fact make sure the rocket doesn't go off? 
CUTLER: Anything to report? 
RADAR: Yes, sir. The signal on the screen is still there, 1500 miles north north east. It's been stationary for the last ten minutes. 
CUTLER: Let me know the moment it starts to move. 
RADAR: Yes, sir. 
CUTLER: Any word from my son? 
BARCLAY: Can't seem to raise him, General. 
CUTLER: What? 
RADAR: The signal, sir, it's moving. Coming in fast, course 0-1-5. 
CUTLER: Where's it heading? 
RADAR: Straight for here, sir. 
BARCLAY: Cybermen? 
CUTLER: Must be. 
BARCLAY: Anti-missile batteries? 
CUTLER: No. No, I've got a better idea. We'll let them land and then ambush them with their own weapons. Put the whole base on red alert. 
R/T: Very good, sir. Now hear this. All base to red alert. Repeat, all base to red alert. 
CUTLER: Security? Major, put section one under snow camouflage and issue them with the captured Cybermen weapons. Report to me on R/T when complete. How long to countdown? 
BARCLAY: Ten minutes. 
CUTLER: They'll be here by then. We'll have to hold them off, then proceed as with a normal launching. 
(Cutler picks up the phone.) 
CUTLER: Yes? 
DYSON [OC]: Bomb's in position, sir. Will you check it now? 
CUTLER: Right. Just time before the battle commences. 
(Cutler leaves.) 
POLLY: (sotto) Quick, now's our chance. 
BARCLAY: For what? 
POLLY: To go and see Ben. We need the others to help. Hurry, before it's too late.

[Bunk room]

(Ben is trying to open the grill. Polly dashes in.) 
POLLY: Ben? 
BEN: Strewth, you gave me a turn then, duchess. 
POLLY: How is he? 
BEN: Oh, he's just the same. 
(Barclay enters.) 
BEN: The quack's been to see him. He says he'll be all right, though. 
POLLY: Doctor Barclay's going to help us. 
BEN: Oh, good. Now look, is there anything we can do to stop this rocket? 
BARCLAY: Well, it can be immobilised quite simply if we can get into the rocket silo. 
BEN: Well, can't you? 
BARCLAY: No, it's under constant guard. If I or anyone else tried to tamper with the controls we'd be discovered immediately. 
BEN: Well, is there any other way in? 
BARCLAY: No. Wait a minute. 
BEN: Well? 
BARCLAY: There is one way. I designed this part of the base. That ventilator shaft leads straight into the rocket silo. But I doubt if I could get into it. It'd be a tight squeeze. 
BEN: But I might. Though if it leads into the rocket silo, would I need a radiation suit? 
BARCLAY: No, the top part is screened. But there's a guard outside and an engineer checking instruments inside. 
POLLY: Well, couldn't we distract him, get him outside? 
BARCLAY: Perhaps. Now look, this is what you would have to do. 
BEN: Yeah. 
(Barclay draws a diagram on a pad of paper on the table.) 
BARCLAY: Along the side of the rocket 
BEN: Yeah. 
BARCLAY: Just level with the walkway, there is a panel marked Plug Servo Leads. You'll need a screwdriver. 
BEN: Well, I've got this knife. 
BARCLAY: Good. That will do. Now, unscrew the panel and inside you will see four small plugs. Take out any one of them and snip off a pin and put it back. 
BEN: What'll that do? 
BARCLAY: Well, the fuel pump pressure will fall to zero at blast off. 
BEN: You mean the engines won't work? But I mean, won't they discover it? 
BARCLAY: Not in six months. It's not the sort of fault they look for. 
(A klaxon sounds.) 
BARCLAY: The Cybermen. Now look, this is what you have to do. You come out of the ventilation shaft, down a ladder at the side.

[South Pole]

(Another Cybersaucer lands. Nearby, guards are hiding with just the Cyberweapons visible. A group of Cybermen approach and stop. The guards fire the weapons and take most of them out.)

[Ventilation shaft]

(Ben crawls along the shaft. He checks with Barclay's map and comes to the silo, where he can see a scientist going through a check list. Another scientist opens the door and summons his colleague out to meet with Barclay. Now the room is clear for Ben to unfasten the grill.)

[Bunk room]

POLLY: I do wish you'd wake up. 
(She hears a noise and gets into the top bunk, covering herself with the blanket. An armed guard checks that the two prisoners are present, then leaves.)

[Rocket silo]

(Ben gets the grill open. He goes over to the Servo Plug Leads.)

[South Pole]

(The three guards emerge from their hiding place near the Tardis and collect the Cybermen's weapons.)

[Tracking room]

(Cutler is watching on a monitor.) 
CUTLER: Well, that's accounted for that lot. Tell them to bring the captured weapons down to the guard room. 
R/T: Sir. 
CUTLER: Barclay? Where's Barclay? 
DYSON: I don't know, sir. He wasn't here when I got back. 
CUTLER: Know where he went? 
DYSON: Maybe to the rocket silo. 
CUTLER: I wonder. 
DYSON: Burns, check my figures on the second stage booster. 
BURNS: Sir.

[Corridor]

(Outside the silo.) 
CUTLER: What are you doing here, Doctor Barclay? 
BARCLAY: General, I was just checking these with Haynes.

[Rocket silo]

(Cutler enters as Ben is half way inside the mechanism. He pulls him out and Ben falls backwards over the railing.) 
CUTLER: All right. Get him down to the tracking room. You, check that rocket. See if he's done anything. 
BARCLAY: I can explain this, General. 
CUTLER: Yes, I'm sure. Right now you're coming with me. I need you. We'll talk about this after that rocket's gone.

[Tracking room]

CUTLER: Now, listen. I am warning you. If that rocket doesn't take off for Mondas, if my son's life is in jeopardy because of him, I'll take the law into my own hands. And that goes for you too, Doctor Barclay. You'd just better make a good job of that launch. Okay, start the countdown. 
BARCLAY: Preliminary checks are not complete, General. 
CUTLER: See if you can get through to my son again. 
R/T: Snowcap to Zeus 5. Snowcap to Zeus 5. Come in, please. 
TERRY [OC]: Zeus 5 to Snowcap. Reading you loud and clear. Over. 
CUTLER: Give it to me. Son, Son, have you seen any sign of those spacecraft yet? 
TERRY [on monitor]: No, I haven't seen a thing, there's just me up here at the moment, all on my lonesome. 
CUTLER: Yeah. Well watch it. They move mighty fast. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Well, when are you going to bring me down? 
CUTLER: Well, we can't do it just yet, you'll have to hold on. We have to deal with Mondas first. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Hey, wait a minute. The capsule's getting a little slow on the controls. 
CUTLER: What about your power? 
TERRY [on monitor]: It loses and then picks up again. 
CUTLER: Yes, that's Mondas affecting it. Don't worry, son. We'll get you down just as soon as we're able. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Well, it can't be too soon for me. 
CUTLER: Good luck, son. Out. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Luck. I'm gonna need it. 
BARCLAY: All systems ready to proceed with countdown. Barclay speaking. Check in please. Silo control. 
(Polly is tending the bump on Ben's head from his fall.) 
POLLY: Ben. Ben, please wake up. 
TECH [OC]: Check. 
BARCLAY: Gantry team. 
TECH 2 [OC]: A1 Okay. 
BARCLAY: Fire control. 
TECH 3 [OC]: Check. 
BARCLAY: Fuel control. 
TECH 4 [OC]: Perfect. Check. 
BARCLAY: Search monitors. 
TECH 5 [OC]: Okay. 
BARCLAY: Bomb fuse team. 
TECH 6 [OC]: Completed. Check. 
BARCLAY: Booster guidance. 
TECH 7 [OC]: Check. 
BARCLAY: We are starting at T-minus two minutes, starting from now! 
(Ben comes round.) 
POLLY: Ben, are you all right? 
BEN: Who's that? 
POLLY: Shh, keep your voice down. 
BEN: What happened? 
POLLY: I'll tell you later. 
BARCLAY: Radar vectors check. T-minus 1-50 and counting. 
TECH [OC]: Check. 
POLLY: Did you manage it? 
BEN: Oh, my head. It's splitting! 
POLLY: Did you, Ben? Try and remember. 
BEN: I can't think. 
BARCLAY: T-minus 1-40 and counting. Clear silo. Booster giros on. 
TECH [OC]: Silo clear. We have a fault on range computer. Check circuits. 
BARCLAY: Stop the countdown! 
POLLY: Does that mean they've found the fault? 
BEN: I don't know! 
CUTLER: What's the matter with those range computers? 
BARCLAY: It's only a minor fault, General. Holding at T-minus 01-35. 
CUTLER: It had better be minor, Doctor Barclay. 
TECH [OC]: All clear. 
BARCLAY: Proceed with countdown. Starting from now. 
POLLY: It's still going to fire after all you've done. 
BARCLAY: T-minus 01-25. Raise the missile. 
(The rocket emerges from it's silo.) >
BARCLAY: T-minus 1-5. Everyone out of silo area. Land lines away. 
(The rocket's gantry and cables retract.) 
BARCLAY: T-minus 50 seconds. Switch firing circuits to auto action. 
TECH [OC]: Will do. 
BARCLAY: Countdown timing to automatic. 
POLLY: We'll know if you succeeded in just a few seconds. 
TECH [OC]: T-minus 40 seconds. T-minus 30 seconds. T-minus 20 seconds. T-minus 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. 
(Ignition. )

Episode Four

(This episode exists as only audio with stills and some clips.)

[Tracking room]

(Ignition ends. The rocket has not lifted off.) 
POLLY: Ben, you made it. The rocket hasn't gone off. It didn't work. Now we've all got a chance of life. 
CUTLER: Your Cybermen friends may have a chance of life, but not you, sailor. Nor that old man. Now go get him up here. 
POLLY: But he's ill! 
CUTLER: He's gonna get worse. Get him up! 
DOCTOR: No need. I'm here. 
POLLY: Doctor! 
BEN: Doctor, are you all right? 
DOCTOR: Yes, yes, yes. Your plan is foiled, sir. You cannot fire the rocket. 
CUTLER: You just arrived in time. Get over there. 
DOCTOR: I must protest. 
CUTLER: Move! Dyson, get through to Zeus 5! 
POLLY: What's happened to you, Doctor? 
DOCTOR: Oh, I'm not sure, my dear. Comes from an outside influence. Unless this old body of mine is wearing a bit thin. 
POLLY: What do you mean, wearing a bit thin? 
DOCTOR: Oh, don't worry child, don't worry, don't worry. Oh, let's have a look, dear boy. 
(Cutler is pointing his service revolver at Barclay.) 
CUTLER: Barclay, that rocket was sabotaged with your help. Now you're gonna get it off the ground again. I'm gonna give you one more chance or you're gonna get killed with them. 
BARCLAY: I can't fire this rocket, and neither can you. 
CUTLER: How long will it take you to refuel? 
BARCLAY: Long enough. 
CUTLER: All right, if that's the way you want to play it get up. Get up. Get up! Get over there. 
DYSON: I'm getting a signal, sir. From Lieutenant Cutler, sir. 
TERRY [on monitor]: I'm tumbling badly and there's little control left in the capsule. I must speak fast. 
CUTLER: Yes. Yes, go ahead, son. 
TERRY [on monitor]: This new planet, there's something strange happening. 
CUTLER: What do you mean? 
TERRY [on monitor]: Well it seems to brighten up like a sun and then darken again. 
DOCTOR: It cannot absorb much more energy. 
RADAR: Sir, Cyberman spaceships on approach path. 
CUTLER: Shut up, will you? Go ahead, son. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Hey, control's gone again. Energy loss severe It's like, it's like being on a switchback. I can't, I can't seem to 
(Transmission ends.) 
CUTLER: Get that signal back! 
DYSON: It's gone. Could be a power failure. 
CUTLER: Come on, man! Come on, Dyson, get that signal! 
RADAR: Sir, Cyberman ship on descent now! 
DYSON: Radio dead. It's hopeless. 
BARCLAY: The enemy will landing at any moment. 
DOCTOR: General! 
CUTLER: The enemy! The enemy! I'll tell you who the enemy is. You are the enemy. You. 
RADAR: The Cybermen, sir. They must have landed. 
CUTLER: You, you, you, you killed my son! 
DYSON: But, sir, they've landed! 
CUTLER: The only person I gave a care about in this whole world, and you killed him. So now I'm going to kill you and I'll start on you, Doctor. 
(Cybermen enter. Polly screams. Cutler opens fire but the Cybermen's response is faster. Cutler falls to the ground, dead.) 
KRANG: Silence. Anyone who moves will be killed instantly. 
DOCTOR: We owe you our lives. That man was going to have us shot. 
KRANG: Go with the others down there. 
BEN: There's gratitude for you. We save their grotty planet Mondas for what. 
KRANG: Saved Mondas? We do not believe you. We have seen a rocket missile aimed at Mondas. 
DOCTOR: That is so. We prevented it being fired at you. We helped you. Therefore, I suggest you help us. 
BEN: It's no use talking to these geezers. 
KRANG: And what do you ask in return for this? 
DOCTOR: Your planet is finished. It will disintegrate. We know why you came here, so why not stay and live with us in peace? 
KRANG: We will confer. Keep your places. Anyone who moves will be killed instantly. 
BARCLAY: Can we trust them? 
BEN: No, of course we can't. 
DOCTOR: We have no chance. We must play for time. Be quiet. Well, sir, what have you decided? 
KRANG: We cannot talk while that missile is aimed at Mondas. It must be disarmed first. 
DOCTOR: A moment, please. Are you able to disarm this rocket? 
BARCLAY: Well, yes, but, er 
DOCTOR: It will give us the time we need. 
BEN: The time for Mondas to burn itself out, you mean? 
DOCTOR: Yes, now quiet! We accept your terms. The warhead will be removed from the rocket. 
KRANG: It must be removed to below ground level. 
BARCLAY: Well, there's the radiation room. It's the deepest in the base. 
KRANG: That will do. And to make sure you do this, we will take two hostages. That girl will go to the spacecraft. You will stay here with us. You three must go to the rocket. 
DOCTOR: You must do as they say. 
BEN: Look, if you want a hostage, what about me? 
KRANG: You are needed to help with the warhead. 
BEN: Now, look here, you're not taking Polly. 
DOCTOR: Let me handle this, my boy! 
BEN: But Doctor! 
DOCTOR: All of you, go with Barclay. 
BARCLAY: But Doctor, I think it would be a good idea if 
DOCTOR: Go. I think it is wiser. 
BARCLAY: Very well. Come on, Dyson. 
DYSON: Right. 
DOCTOR: You give me your word that this young girl will be returned to me when that bomb is safely stowed away? 
KRANG: Yes. 
DOCTOR: Very well, child, off you go. And don't forget your coat. I don't want you to get cold.

[Cyberman ship]

(In the Cybership, Polly is pushed into a small cabin.) 
POLLY: Ow! What are you going to do with me now? What kind of chair is that? It's horrible! Look, keep back! Keep away from me! 
(The Cyberman puts his hands on Polly's head and she falls unconscious. She is clamped into the chair.)

[Tracking room]

WOMAN [OC]: Geneva calling South Polar base. Geneva to South Pole. 
DOCTOR: Didn't you hear? 
WOMAN [OC]: Geneva calling South Polar base. Geneva to South Pole. Geneva to South Pole. Geneva to South Pole. 
DOCTOR: Hello Geneva, Geneva. 
WOMAN [OC]: Secretary Wigner to speak with General Cutler. 
DOCTOR: I'm afraid the General isn't here at the moment, and, er, I've been put in charge temporarily.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: Who is that speaking? 
DOCTOR [OC]: I have no time to discuss it now, sir. 
WIGNER: Tell General Cutler there have been mass landings of Cybermen in many parts of the world. Who are you? 
(The office is full of Cybermen.) 
GERN: I am now Controller of the Earth. Resist us and you die.

[Tracking room]

GERN [OC]: You must proceed with your second objective. 
KRANG: We are proceeding according to plan. 
GERN [OC]: Report to me as soon as you are ready. We must have time to evacuate. 
KRANG: Unit Delta plus calling. Unit Delta plus calling. Unit Delta plus calling. 
DOCTOR: I do not understand your friend, sir. Evacuate? Surely you're not going to return to Mondas now? 
KRANG: We will not discuss our plans with you. 
DOCTOR: What is your second objective? It's quite obvious, isn't it? The destruction of the Earth! Ben! Barclay! Do not help them.

[Radiation room]

DOCTOR [on monitor]: They're going to use the Zed-bomb to destroy the Earth! 
(Ben, Barclay, Dyson and Haines are all clothed in protective radiation suits.) 
BEN: Did you all hear that? 
BARCLAY: Of course, it all makes sense now! We've allowed ourselves to be fooled by them. 
DYSON: We've just set them up nicely. Cutler was right, wasn't he? We should have used the bomb on them. 
BARCLAY: No, that might quite easily have led to something far worse. 
DYSON: Worse? We're just about to be blown to bits along with the entire population of the Earth, and you talk about something worse? 
BEN: Give over, mate. What he means is, while there's life there's still hope. 
DYSON: Seems to me we've just signed our own death warrants. 
KRANG [on monitor]: Check progress on the bomb. 
BEN: Quick! All look busy. Bring in number two line! Half a mo. The Doctor told us to play for time, right? And I've got an idea. 
DYSON: Marvellous. 
BEN: Well, you might at least hear it. I don't hear any bright suggestions coming from you two guys. 
BARCLAY: Go on. 
BEN: Well, any idea how strong these Cybermen are? 
BARCLAY: A rough idea. 
BEN: Yeah, well, they could lift a man like he was well, like he was a wrench, right? 
DYSON: Yes, well? 
BEN: Well, they're also pretty advanced geezers, way ahead of us. 
DYSON: What has this got to do with it? 
BEN: Well, that just it. With all this, why should they need us? Well, they could shift that bomb in half the time, so why get us to do it? Also, you notice they remain outside this door, looking at us all the time through the door. Well why? 
DYSON: This is just a waste of time. 
BARCLAY: No, wait a minute, I think I see what he's driving at. They use us because they daren't handle it themselves. 
BEN: Yeah, but the point is, why? Well, you're the scientists. 
BARCLAY: Don't you see, Dyson? It could that they're afraid of radioactivity. 
BEN: Let's get this one inside and see what it does to him. Now look, all lie down on the floor. Play dead. 
DYSON: This is ridiculous, games. 
BARCLAY: Well maybe, but it's worth giving it a try. Come on, lie down. 
(Barclay, Dyson and Haines lie on the floor.) 
BEN: Help! Help! Come in here, mate, there's something up! Help! 
(The Cyberman enters cautiously, but is overcome by radiation. Ben grabs his gun, shoves him outside and closes the door.) 
BEN: You see? 
DYSON: What did you do that for? We could have escaped! 
BEN: To where? We're okay right where we are. 
BARCLAY: And they can't set off this bomb while we defend this room. 
BEN: Right. So all we've go to do is sit tight and wait until Mondas breaks up like the Doctor said! Well, we've got them. Yeah, but they've still got the Doctor and Polly.

[Tracking room]

DOCTOR: Well, gentlemen, stalemate I think, don't you agree? Well now, what about a little talk? 
KRANG: You forget we can do what we like with all of you and the girl. 
DOCTOR: Oh, quite so, but I'm afraid that won't help save your planet, will it?

[Radiation room]

KRANG [on monitor]: Listen to me. This close proximity of our two planets means that one has to be eliminated for the safety of the other. The one to be destroyed will be Earth. We cannot allow Mondas to burn up. If you help, we will take you all back to Mondas with us. There you will be safe. 
BEN: Yeah? For how long? 
DYSON: It could be our only chance. 
BEN: The answer is no! We'll just sit tight here until Mondas breaks up. Now then, you'd better release the Doctor and Polly and send them down here. You're gonna need our help when Mondas is gone.

[Tracking room]

KRANG: Mondas will not burn up. Take the old man out to the spacecraft. 
DOCTOR: You will regret this. 
KRANG: Now we give you three minutes to start fusing the warhead. If you fail, you will never see your friends again.

[Radiation room]

BEN: That's really done it. What do we do now? 
DYSON: This is hopeless. We must do as they say. 
BARCLAY: Well, it could be a bluff. 
BEN: Yeah, how do we find out? 
BARCLAY: Well, we must stick to our plan and sit tight. There are millions of lives at stake. 
BEN: Yeah, but there must be something we can do. 
(Ben disconnects the communication system.) 
DYSON: What did you do that for? Now we can't communicate with them. 
BEN: No, and they can't spy on us either. Now this is what I think we should do.

[Cyberman ship]

(Polly and the Doctor are in the cage-chairs, with their hands fastened to a bar in front of them.) 
POLLY: Doctor? Doctor? 
DOCTOR: What is it, child? 
POLLY: Engines! They're not going to take off, are they? 
DOCTOR: No, no. Wait. The vibrations. Perhaps it's coming from Mondas. 
POLLY: What do you mean, Mondas? 
DOCTOR: This spacecraft receives its energy from Mondas. Perhaps it's absorbing too much. 
POLLY: Don't mean it's going to blow up, do you? 
DOCTOR: No, I don't know, child. It is an unknown power. 
POLLY: Doctor, I'm scared!

[Radiation room]

(Ben is looking at the tritanium feed cylinder.) 
BEN: What's it weigh then? 
DYSON: You're not thinking of carrying that thing around with you, are you? 
BEN: I'm not asking you. Can it be shifted, Doctor Barclay? 
BARCLAY: No, it would be an impossible task to use it as you intend using it. 
BEN: Well, just what is there in this room that is radioactive and that a bloke could carry? 
DYSON: Nothing. You're wasting your time and ours. And our three minutes is nearly up anyway. 
BEN: Think, sir. Is there anything behind here that's radioactive? 
BARCLAY: Well, yes, of course. That's the base nuclear reactor. It supplies all the power. 
BEN: Well what's it like? Is there anything that could be moved by hand? 
BARCLAY: Well, if we extracted the reactor rods they could be carried for a short distance, but it would be a very tricky operation. 
BEN: Well, it's our only hope. Come on. 
DYSON: Are you both quite mad? 
BEN: Look, Dyson, we're the sane ones. Do you really think those Cybermen intend to let us live? 
DYSON: They gave us their word. 
BEN: They just said anything they thought we'd listen to. They've got no feelings, remember? They told us that. So what's to stop them? Anyway, you might as well face it, mate, your number's up either way. So why not try, eh? We need your help anyway, okay?

[Tracking room]

JARL: Records, Krang. 
KRANG: Our planet is nearing saturation point. We must lose no time. Switch on the monitor. Their three minutes is up. We must hear their decision. What has happened?

[Radiation room]

(Dyson and Haines are extracting the fuel rods from the reactor, with Barclay behind them carrying a Geiger counter.) 
BARCLAY: Hold them away from yourselves. Gently does it, very gently. Stand by the emergency power switch. The lights will be fading any second now. 
DYSON: I suppose you realise there's only about an hour's supply of lighting and heating in the emergency batteries. Then we shall all freeze to death. 
BEN: If this don't work, mate, you needn't worry about the cold anymore. 
(Ben checks that the corridor is clear.) 
BEN: Okay, it's all clear. Quick!

[Corridor]

BEN: Dyson, you go up this end of the corridor. When you hear the Cybermen coming, come out behind them. Haines, you go round that corridor and do the same. Now look, I'll draw their fire, so when you hear the sound of this gun, start coming forward. Do you really think there's enough radiation in these two rods to trap them? 
BARCLAY: Just. 
BEN: Okay, come on. 
(Ben and Barclay go back into the Radiation room. Krang and Jarl are coming.) 
KRANG: Do not use this gas unless you have to. We need them alive and conscious. 
(Ben retreats to the others in the Radiation Room.)

[Radiation room]

BEN: They're coming. Quick! Behind the door. 
KRANG [OC]: Your three minutes is up. What is your decision? We shall be forced to kill you. We will give you one more chance to come out and give us the bomb. 
BEN: Come in and get it! 
(The Cybermen start to pump gas into the room.) 
BEN: There's something else down by the door. 
(Barclay opens the door.) 
BEN: Now! 
(Ben fires his Cyber-weapon and Jarl falls.) 
BARCLAY: I can't hold out much longer! 
BEN: Where's Dyson and the other bloke got to?

[Corridor]

KRANG: The humans are behind the door. Let the gas do its work. 
(Haines and Dyson come up behind the Cybermen with the radioactive rods. The Cybermen collapse and Ben comes out of the room.) 
BEN: Quick, Dyson. Help get Barclay out of here.

[Tracking room]

TECH: What happened, Doctor Barclay? Are you all right? 
BEN: He's all right. Yeah, get in the chair. 
DYSON: Back to your desks all of you. The emergency's not over yet. Philips, there are two reactor rods out in the corridor. See that they're put back at once. 
BEN: Hey, they've still got the Doctor and Polly. 
BARCLAY: No, wait! If you try and tackle the spacecrafts on your own, you don't stand a chance. We don't know how many Cybermen there are left. 
BEN: Well? 
BARCLAY: Well, here's one of the things they use to contact each other. 
BEN: I don't know how it works. 
BARCLAY: Well then, do anything, make a signal. Draw them here. 
DYSON: Is that wise? 
BEN: Well, if that spaceship takes off we'll never gonna see them again. 
DYSON: You may bring them all in on us. 
BEN: Well that's a risk we've got to take. 
(The Cyber comm. unit buzzes.) 
BEN: That should do it. Any idea how long it'll take for them to get here? 
DYSON: You stand by with those guns. 
BARCLAY: Now look, we must all get down other side of the room. 
BEN: Okay. 
BARCLAY: Opposite the door so we can face them. Use the guns. 
(The lights go out.) 
BEN: What now? 
DYSON: The emergency battery's running out, I suppose. 
BARCLAY: We can't face them in the dark! 
DYSON: Now we shall freeze to death. 
BARCLAY: They must get those reactor rods back. 
BEN: Hang on, they're coming back. 
BARCLAY: Ah. 
BEN: Look! 
BARCLAY: Here they are. 
SHAV: Resistance is useless. Drop your weapons. 
RADAR: Just look at Mondas, sir. I can't believe it! 
DYSON: Fantastic! It looks as if it's melting! 
BEN: It's falling to bits! 
BARCLAY: The end of Mondas. 
BEN: Hey, look! What's happened to them? 
BARCLAY: They've disintegrated! 
DYSON: They must have been entirely dependent on power from Mondas. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Zeus 5 to Snowcap. Are you receiving me. Over? 
BARCLAY: Quick, Dyson, get that. 
TERRY [on monitor]: Zeus 5 to Snowcap.
DYSON: Snowcap to Zeus 5. Reading you loud and clear. 
TERRY [on monitor]: What happened? Where have you been? 
BARCLAY: Here, let me have that. Snowcap to Zeus 5, what is your fuel position? 
TERRY: It's okay. Everything's suddenly working normally. And what about getting me down? 
BARCLAY: We've been on emergency power. We'll handle your splashdown as soon as we get full power back. Start checking the base main units. 
DYSON: Yes, right. 
BARCLAY: Hello, Geneva? Geneva? 
BEN: Hey! The Doctor and Polly! 
BARCLAY: Snowcap here. 
WIGNER [on monitor]: Hello, Snowcap. Who is that, Barclay? 
BARCLAY: Yes, we've just getting full power back. The danger is apparently over.

[International Space Command]

WIGNER: The Cyberman menace has ended all over the world. Let me have a full report as soon as you can.

[Tracking room]

BARCLAY: Sir, will do. Did you hear that? He wants a full report. Where exactly shall we begin, do you think?

[Cyberman ship]

BEN: Doctor! 
POLLY: Ben! Oh please, Ben, help me. Get me out of this thing! 
BEN: All right, don't panic, I'll have you out soon. 
POLLY: Ow! My hands were stuck and I couldn't get out. Ben, I've been so scared. 
BEN: Take it easy, love, take it easy. 
POLLY: And that Cyberman thing, it just fizzled into nothing, Ben, it was awful. 
BEN: What's the matter with the Doctor? 
POLLY: I don't know. When the lights went out, he just seemed to faint. 
BEN: Hey, come on Doctor, wakey wakey! It's all over now. 
POLLY: Doctor. 
(They help him out of the cage.) 
DOCTOR: What did you say, my boy? It's all over. It's all over. That's what you said. No, but it isn't all over. It's far from being all over. 
BEN: What are you taking about? 
DOCTOR: I must get back to the Tardis immediately! 
POLLY: All right, Doctor. 
DOCTOR: Yes, I must go now. 
BEN: Aren't we going to go back to say goodbye or anything? 
DOCTOR: No. No, I must go at once. 
BEN: Oh well, you better have this. We don't want you catching your death of cold. 
(Ben hands the Doctor his cloak.) 
DOCTOR: Ah, yes. Thank you. It's good. Keep warm. 
(The Doctor leaves.) 
POLLY: What's happened to him? 
BEN: Dunno. He seems to lost his sense of humour. 
POLLY: Well, I can't wait to get out of this place. 
BEN: Good looking guys, aren't they?

[Outside the Tardis]

POLLY: Wait for us! 
BEN: Open the door! 
POLLY: Hey, let us in! 
BEN: You can't leave us here, of all places! Open up! 
POLLY: Doctor!

[Tardis]

(The Doctor is overtaken by an invisible power but summons the effort to open the door for Ben and Polly. Levers are moving and the central column is moving up and down. The Doctor collapses.) 
POLLY: Doctor! Quick, help him. 
BEN: No, leave him. 
(To the familiar sound of dematerialisation, the Doctor's features change to those of a younger dark haired man.)