MOMA makes me happy. (: I love modern art. I don't understand a lot of it, but in a way I think that's kind of the point. It's sort of a big old Fuck You to traditionalists who say art should fit some arbitrary rubric. If something deemed as art evokes a response - be it happy, sad, mad, confused - it is serving its purpose. This is what I think anyway. What do I know, I'm just a review. Six floors of cool art with all the famous paintings like Starry Night (super neat to be standing within 2 inches and examining the varied, almost frenzied, brush strokes), Warhol's soup cans, The Scream (with a whole bunch of associated lithographs), water lilies courtesy of M. Monet that span an entire wall, demoiselles d'avignon (Picasso, your porn looks funny), among many other such pieces. There is also a floor with design elements spanning from the 50s until now, featuring gorgeous Eames chairs and coffee tables to shiny, futuristic sleeping bags/pods. There are also a couple of places to eat (and rest your feet!) within the museum, which when I eat there, makes me feel fancy as hell. "HEY, look at me, I'm daintily sipping some sauvignon blanc and eating crudites while discussing Magritte's mastery of the trompe l'oeil." It's free on Fridays from 4-8 pm. You should get there around 3:40ish and wait in line. Yes, it is indeed a massively long line that bends around the block. But it moves really quickly, I promise! The gift shop is cool too...so many strange little items that always are good gifts for the person who has everything or the friend for whom you never know what to get. P.S. The design store (with jewelry, watches, etc.) is separate from the main gift shop and is across the street. Ah! Just writing this whole thing made me a little giddy. I'm weird, I know.
I hadn't been to this museum in ages, and after watching a Dr. Who episode on Van Gogh, I decided to pencil in a visit.  I specifically wanted to go see Starry Night which I heard is consistently the biggest draw in the museum.   I'm not going to give a general review of the place, but will single out some great locations I found inside the museum: Sculpture Garden - Unfortunately my visit was during the winter when the pools were dry, but even then I could appreciate the serenity of this place.  The garden is large and overlooks the fine dining restaurant on the first floor.   Painting and Sculpture I - This place has all the famous works with values that rivals the GDP's of small nations.  Of course, there are some works in there that are priceless and you can see why.  There is no better collection of European Impressionist work outside the Met. Painting and Sculpture II - Jasper Johns, Warhol, Pollock, and Rauschenberg.  Enough said.  If you are enrolled in an art program, this is pretty much your classroom because all the greats are here. Tip - If you have small kids, the museum has a program where admission for your party is free (That's a huge savings for a family of 4) if you can get to the Education Center (it's on the street opposite the main entrance on 54th street) by 10 AM.  Probably a good idea to queue up a bit earlier than that but you get a one hour tour of some exhibits whereupon you get a movie ticket for the film of the day and a pass good for that day and a return visit.  Can't beat it.
I have a huge appreciation for art but I'm not the biggest fan of Modern Art. On of the main reasons why I wanted to go was to see the Jackson Pollock (Image uploaded). I was quite surprised of how much I enjoyed myself. We got the City Pass so our entrance fee was at a discounted price! I highly recommend getting it. There's an outdoor garden area as well as several floors and rooms of Modern art. Unfortunately weather did not permit to go outside in the gardens so I can't say too much about that. As far as the museum itself goes, the exhibits flow well and you definitely see true Modern Art. What I particularly enjoyed was what I was calling the IKEA section, there were modern furniture and staged rooms that gave me great design ideas! The Artwork was all original and exhibits truly unique. I read the reviews prior to going, I went on a week day around 3 and the lines we not long at all, the only thing they did request was that my backpack be held to the side for precautionary reason, they didn't want my bag to hit any of the displays. But they were very kind and respectful when making that request. There's so many different styles and displays to see if you're into art and have an appreciation or love for Modern Art this is a great place for you!
TIP: Free on Fridays from 4-8p. -I've been here twice now. I still need to go once or twice more to wait in line but it's always so long during Free Fridays :p -Five floors (not including main floor) of exhibition. Downside is that the 6th floor is for members only.
Free Fridays. It's a strange museum that will leave you and your party confused and enlightened.  You'll rethink what is art and you will question what is deemed art worthy.  You can get through the museum in less than 2 hours if you're efficient and skip exhibits with long lines. If you're not really into art,  you can get through this pretty quickly.  I like to wander and look for things that catches my eye. This museum is not everyone's cup of tea but I do suggest you take a look.  The museum is not very kid friendly because there are a bunch of levels and the crowd can get pretty large.
Mind blowing
A large part of the MOMA experience is what happens to be featured for exhibit; sometimes you get lucky, other times, you find yourself questioning what passes as art these days. Nevertheless, the standard MOMA repertoire is solid. My absolute favorite artistic period is the true "Modern Art" era, so perhaps I came in with a pre-established bias... but I digress. Some of the contemporary art on display is a little too out for my taste, but what I love about MOMA the most is its care to maintain balance - so even if you don't like everything, chances are, there's a whole floor of art you love. A must-see for the curious tourist, or the cultured native. If nothing else, go to the gift shop, which is filled with cool little books and gagets.
I only come here on free Fridays or with friends who have free access. New Yorkers, IMO, should not have to pay as much as visitors (the cost is prohibitive). But it's always fun to see what new photo and video exhibits they have, and MoMa has a great movie program. The food options have become very impressive as well--with a revamped cafe and a fine dining option. Not my favorite museum in the world, but nice every once in a while.
Free admission on Fridays! Don't be alarmed by the humongous line as it should only take about a minute to get your ticket and gain entry. TRY NOT TO BRING ANY LARGE BAGS/COATS. You will need to check it in and that will take a lot of time. Overall a really exciting museum. I've never been the type to really appreciate the arts but after seeing it up close and actually reading the descriptions I got to enjoy the entire experience. There's going to be A LOT of things here, and you might not even get to see all of it. I suggest that you start at the top and work your way down. You'll definitely want to see Starry Night by Van Gogh, The Scream by Munch, and a whole lot of other famous art on the 3rd and 4th floors. I also really liked the Product Design exhibits since they detail modern products that people use.
My second museum to visit in New York, and it was definitely a lot different than the MET, they were incredible eye-appealing and enjoyable in their most unique ways. For me, the MET had more historical artifacts, especially with the Egyptian and mummy exhibition. On the other hand, MOMA was definitely more geared toward modern art, and even the architecture throughout the museum seemed very "foward". The great thing about MOMA is that you can actually take pictures without having to do it secretly! It almost felt a little, "wrong", since most museum typically do not allow flash photography, so I would feel as if I was doing something illegal. MOMA was composed of different floors, and each floor was categorized to a different type of art, such as painting or furniture, or etc. My favorite one had to be the furniture floor, as you read about the history of products such as typewriters and cameras, and has a full gallery of the progression of these innovations from start to finish. MOMA is usually incredible packed, especially on Friday night, when it's free. I tried going there at 5pm but saw the line and went home. That thing is ridiculous, and probably would have taken more than 2 hours to get in. I wasn't sure if I wanted to stand in the cold for that...especially because I was visiting NY, not going there to suffer! So we ended up coming back the day after during the early morning, and it was well worth it! I must say though, the tickets at around 25 per person, wasn't too bad, but if you are low on budget, the MET was pretty much on a what you wish to pay system. I was a little confused at first but apparently, it's kind of like a donation. You pay want you want to pay, and in other words, you can choose to pay nothing.
For a while, each time I visited the MoMA I had to stop by the pickled shark and pay my respects to my unbridled hatred of Damien Hirst. (Outside of his fascination with dead critters he also had a skull cast in twenty-something million dollars in diamonds and platinum, thus making him the contemporary art world's equivalent to Elizabeth Taylor. The only thing he lacks are tacky fragrances.) Anyway. All that's over now as the pickled shark is not there anymore. And while there are still a whole bunch of pieces on the 2nd floor that make you squint your eyes and question the direction of art altogether, there is the whole 5th floor to make up for it. Also on the 5th floor and on loan right now: Munch's The Scream. There are four, this is one of the pastels. If you are in New York and you have $25 dollars and any interest whatsoever in once in a Halley's Comet opportunities, you should go. Definitely.
I'll caveat my review of MOMA with admitting that I'm not a huge modern art fan. I'm sure this is part of the reason that I don't love MOMA as much as I love the Met. However, MOMA is a wonderful museum on its own. The permanent collection is interesting to look at, but it's their special exhibits (i.e. Tim Burton) that really are outstanding. I'd recommend coming here early on a day that there is a special exhibit you want to see and then spending some time to enjoy that exhibit and the permanent collection. MOMA can be a fun date place too. One of my fave visits here was on my second date with an ex. We spent several hours wandering the museum and discussing the exhibits, which was extremely fun and I think we learned a lot about each other's point of view on life in the process.
4.5 Picasso, Matisse, Van Gogh, Koons, Pollack...what's not to love here?  My only peeve about this place is that it's flooded with tourists and everyone and their moms try to take advantage of the free after 4pm on Fridays. Sometimes its just not worth it when you simply can't enjoy the pieces in this place.
This place is a little too Raven for me. + ------ +        Hm, OK... |   Art   |           / | Stuff  |          O + ------ +         /|\                        / \
Such a modern and fun museum.   I have gone for the Target Free Fridays and it was rather packed but it is nice to be able to go to the museum for free. Like most museums in NYC, you cannot see it all in one day.  Take your time and do one floor at a time...don't overwhelm yourself.  Go back another day and do another floor.  It will prolong your experiences and it will really allow you to get the most out of the museum.   Great place!!!
I am not really a big museum fan in general, but I took my kids anyway with hopes that they may become a bit more artsy than myself. We went on a free friday, a bit too busy for my taste, I probably should have picked another day to instill an appreciation of art in them.... Overall, good museum, if you are with kids it can be a bit stressful...
It's the MoMA! How can you not love it??
This museum is just weird. I'll be back though. I didn't get to see everything plus I wouldn't mind coming back for a special engagement.
Great space with some world-class art (duh).   Very easy to get around and the more crowded galleries are managed wonderfully. They had a beautifully assembled Munch gallery while we were there and their collection of "modern" art, as in early to mid 20th Century, is, as you would expect, fantastic. They also have the most breathtaking Monets I have seen and even an Ellsworth Kelly painting that utilized more than 1 color. Truly exciting. The contemporary galleries (post -1980), on the other hand, actually seem incredibly dated and irrelevant, and if you're into very new art I would recommend spending your time elsewhere, maybe hopping galleries in Chelsea or at the New Museum, or even stabbing your eyes repeatedly with a fork. The gift shop is magnificent.
Free Friday the line moved pretty quick to get your ticket. They have some great originals....The best floor by far was the 5th.
Great museum...small compared to the two behemoths that anchor the east and west sides of Central park, but just as enjoyable and a great way to spend a few hours. I appreciated the special Quay Brothers exhibit that just ended there and paintings of such late 19th/early 20th century greats as Munch and van Gogh are always great to cast your gaze upon for awhile.
MoMA is my favorite museum in the city! This museum is so much easier to navigate than some of the other ones like the Museum of Natural History which I was pretty disappointed by. Guess I have to give it another try, maybe. I love this museum because they have art that I learned about in school such as Edvard Munch's, "The Scream" and Picasso's, "Starry Nights". They also have a few Andy Warhol pieces that I love! Make sure to check out the MoMA store across the street! They have so many fun little gifts to look at. The outside garden of this museum is beautiful! Perfect place to have an outside wedding in the city on a sunny day! And make sure you get the little remote headpieces on your way in, they talk more in depth about the details of the paintings for some of them.
$12 ticket with student I.D. to get in! I came here few times with my friends. There are several selections of works worth checking out, like Van Gough, Dali, Monet, Pollock, and more. I enjoyed looking at the furniture designs. The overall museum layout can be a bit confusing, but I was able to get around without any issue. I love checking out the gift shop too. Too bad I can't afford some of the cool items i see in there! Yup, you'll get Warhol as well. You will get moments of "how is this art?" and probably get fussy about it. However, there are still some gems worth checking out either way in the collections if not all suit your style!
Really, another STAPLE if you're into, or even if you're NOT into modern art in NYC! Saw the Tim Burton exhibit here and although it was crowded, it was wonderful! Brilliant exhibits and engaging arts scene, a welcome escape from the traditional museum. Just an outstanding cast of staff and really exquisite works! MUST see if you're visiting NYC and looking for an arts scene! *also if you're hungry, get to the expensive cafe, worth it to get the rock lobster, chick pea and cranberry, -see the pics!-and finally-the delicious meat and cheese platter while overlooking the city view-yum!*
I'm surprised I haven't review MoMA yet. Well here it is. I use to come to MoMA a lot back when I was attending CUNY schools. Admission was always free if you were a CUNY or SUNY student. The most recent visit I made was when they had the Tim Burton exhibit. The Tim Burton stuff was a bit cooky but relatively eye popping. I really like his illustrations and props and stuff from his Batman films with Michael Keaton. The really bad part about visiting MoMA, it gets super crowded. There's a butt load of tourist and field trip students from a dozen schools. It gets really stuffy and uncomfortable. To avoid the cluster, I went back on a day that the weather was really bad. They didn't permit any kind of photography in the exhibit which really sucks. You could be sneaky and snap a few with your phone but if they see you with a point and shoot or DSLR, they were all over it... As for the rest of the museum, it's alright. There's always the same Warhol stuff, and a few nice Rauschenberg pieces. There's also a bunch of art work that don't really appeal to me. I enjoy coming to the MoMA every now and then because it's pretty much the same stuff every time.
This MOMA is nice, but didn't quite impress me like MOMAs of other cities. Likes: * Famous pieces of art like Van Gough's Starry Nights, Monet's Lilies and various pieces by Warhol and Dali. *Famous exhibits by not-too famous artists like Brancusi. Funny how a Google Doodle would enhance your interest in an artist. Dislikes: *How the museum's layout can be confusing, and how the volunteers that work here couldn't point me to the right place after asking THREE different times from THREE different people. Maybe it's me, No, for once, I can definitely NOT ME. Special Mention: I love the gift shop in this place. I especially love those History of Art magnets and drink coasters. That was very cute and very cool. Give this place a visit, especially if you can get a discount off a Citypass. Otherwise, head to the Met Museum of Art instead. Unless, of course, modern art is your thing.
You can't beat free Fridays sponsored by Target. MoMA is a client of my company, so I can actually get in free as well whenever, but sadly, I don't take advantage of this as much as I should. Word of advice - don't bring any rolling luggage here. The coat check can only hang things on hooks and you won't be able to get in.
I would've loved to attend one of the free events, but no such luck. Maybe next time. I enjoyed seeing works by Klimt, Chagall, Monet, Pollock.  A bit expensive, but hey it's New York.  I reckon it is all expensive here.  4-5 floors, very nicely laid out, and lots of inspiring art.  There is an interactive floor too, I didn't have the time to explore but it seems like it'd be interesting.  There are a few eateries and a shop too, I didn't visit the shop (but I'm sure it is amazing). Your ticket for this museum is also good for the PS1 MOMA branch in Queens.  I was not able to go (I tried on a Tuesday, it is closed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, whoops).  Oh well, and it doesn't open until like noon either.  Although, it is across from the cool landmark of 5pointz.
Great place. I've always loved MOMA. I just wish I had more time to explore the entire museum! Tips- If you have a school ID use it-it helps lower the cost of admission
My son and I are not really the artsy type, so we got dragged here by my wife and daughter. I'll be honest, I was dreading coming here at first. But, I quickly started to enjoy it. I still like the Metropolitan better, because it tends to focus on historical art, instead of modern art (which I think is a bunch of mumbo jumbo). The layout of the museum is quite confusing, and we wound up back in the same gallery quite a few times. The gift shop is pretty neat, but too bad it costs me an arm and a leg just to purchase a postcard! Oh, and don't try to leave anything larger than a backpack in the coat check, because they will make you leave if you do.
Although I found it hard to locate, the MoMA is definitely somewhere you should visit. The most interesting part of the MoMA for me was seeing one of my favourite paintings, Picasso's 'Les Demoiselles d'Avignon', although Van Gogh's 'Starry Night' and Warhol's 'Campbell's Soup Cans' are also noteworthy. If you are only coming for a brief visit (foolish!) make sure to see Yoko Ono's 'Wish Tree', a metal tree in the yard to which you can tie a piece of paper with a wish onto it - for example, I saw someone had tied a wish saying "I wish my son was free." Tie on a wish, and who knows... it just might come true!
Haven't been to a lot of modern art museums but this one definatley opened up my mind. A lot of information and work to digest. I came here right after the Natural Museum so I was a little tired. 6 floors and I only got through 4 in 3 hours. Will definately come back next time I am in NYC. Might even come back by myself with an iPod next time. Definately a nice place to relax and get your mind thinking. If you don't have enough time, definately hit up 2,3,6th floor. The 6th floor had this one interactive art piece that was WOW. I definately want to see a bit more interactive art... and what about street art?
I absolutely love art and I personally am a big fan of contemporary and modern art so you can imagine how thrilled I was to come here during my trip to New York.  Unfortunately I only got to view 2 floors due to time constraints but my advice is if you have limited time, hit the 5th floor as it holds the paintings of Van Gogh, Monet, Picasso and Munch.  It's truly amazing to see many famous paintings including van Gogh's Starry Night, Edvard Munch's The Scream, and Salvador Dali's The Persistence of Memory. MoMA is huge and for one to thoroughly see the museum will require 2 to 3 days of viewing.  This was a memorable experience and I will come back to see much of their modern art display.  It's a good idea to just commit at least a day to as much art as you can.  The museum opens at 10am so try to be there close to opening.  They do have a map the tells you where some famous artist's work is located which is how I knew where I wanted to go first.  This is truly a great place to visit and if this your first time to NYC, I would highly recommend making a visit to MoMA.
One of my favorite places in the world. If I could be there once a week I would. Took in the Andy Warhol exhibit and the very interesting Design for Children displays on my last visit.
This is my favorite museum in New York. The Picassos alone are worth going for. Jackson Pollacks up close are so cool. Target free Fridays from 4-8pm are really crowded, but worth it if you want to save $25 a ticket. FYI now you have to check backpacks and shopping bags. It's free to do, but be prepared to wait in the coat check line for a while (I waited 30 minutes last Friday.) Best bet is to leave it all at home and walk right in.
MOMA is great (although expensive). Best part is the art we heard about in school: Starry Night by Van Gogh, Water Lilies by Monet, Marilyn Monroe prints by Warhol, and bunch of Dali works (melting clock guy). There is also a garden area that is worth a stop. Now for the prices: Free admissions (I think) on Fridays, but otherwise $25. I honestly would recommend becoming a member if you are going to come more than once or with a friend. Membership is $70 and if you're a member you get $5 passes. I use it so that I go a few times a year for an hour or so at a time and not feel pressured.
The 5th floor is really where it's at.  We were messing around with the 4th floor and kept making quick turns to get away from the awkward Shadow boxes and other nonsense until finally I ended up in a room with a flat piece of steel on the floor.  The sign said that you could "walk on it" to better experience the piece.  I walked on it right out the exit and up the escalator to get the eff out of there. 5th floor again, is the business.  Lots of great pieces including the famous Starry Night, Persistence of Memory by Dali.  It was a little like the MoMA went a little too heavy on the Picasso perfume though, kind of over powered the other artists. Oh and this goes without saying, that I instagramed the sh!t out the place.  I mean we are talking instagram with extra blur and filters and even an app called Pic Collage to put it all up in mish mash format for my Facebook gloating glory.  Is it wrong to put a color filter on Starry Night?  Naaah, I didn't think so either.
Tourist and visitors, please step to the side or out of the path where people walk. I understand maybe something caught your eye, but please just step over to the side and stop blocking foot traffic!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Other than people in my way, MOMA is constantly changing and updating their collections, so it's def modern.  Unlike other old museums that just shows old historical things (I love historical things though).   Great place to chill on a hot summer day.
Always nice to come back and they are constantly changing their exhibits of course. We went on a weekday (Wednesday) in the afternoon so the lines and crowd were pretty civil so to speak. They had a lot of the 5th floor blocked off due to new exhibits being prepared. Nevertheless the admission price was the same which is pretty steep I find. If you are a student you are eligible for a reduced admission. Also this seems to be good for educators as well as my companion got the discount as a Columbia Professor. I heard it's a zoo on the Free Target Fridays. If you want to really enjoy probably better to invest in a ticket. For a glimpse the friday might be alright. I loved the Van Gogh's which reminds me it's time to head back to Amsterdam one of these days. Inspiring visit... :)
The MOMA is a remarkable museum that showcases a great collection of iconic and famous works, that houses constantly revolving exhibits which features the pieces of different artists.   Unlike the twisted egg that is the Guggenheim, the MOMA is a towering building that is sleek and minimalistic, gilded with transparent shiny glass that gives you a peak of what's within as well as reflecting the city that surrounds it. Also unlike the Guggenheim, MOMA offers you 6 floors saturated with a great variety of works that serves as a visual feast for the eyes. -THE ART There are familiar remarkable pieces that we have seen throughout our lives that are referenced in countless of sources and instances in our lives: Starry Night by Van Gogh, Water Lilies by Monet, Marilyn Monroe prints by Warhol, the famous works of Dali, Frida, and etc. It's heartening to see these works and appreciate in person. There are of course more modern works, some that are thought provoking and eye-catching. Others will anger you, isolate you, exasperate you with the simplicity or absurdity of the work or overwhelm you with the smothering indifference the work inspire. One piece that comes to mind is a room with yogurt lids nailed to the wall. There is one exhibit that features modern and innovative furniture as well as technology that are not only potentially functional for everyday life but looks more aesthetically pleasing than some of the contemporary works on site. -THE GARDEN When you feel like you had enough of modern art for a while, take a break and step outside into the outdoor area. It is very pretty and surprisingly serene, with several trees and shrubbery, pools and fountains, as well as some interesting statues. -THE FOOD I've never eaten here but it seems like MOMA has the museum food ever. One of it's restaurants, The Modern can boast to having a James Beard Award for best new restaurant and one Michelin star. For those not in the know, the Modern has the Oscar award and Golden Globe equivalents for fine dining. You can also eat at the Terrace 5 on the fifth floor which offers a spectacular view of The Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden as well as the surrounding skyline. Cafe 2 is the less posh dining area in MOMA, it offers the standard museum fare: panini, salads, and soups. -FREE ADMISSION ON FRIDAYS FROM 4pm to 8pm Take advantage of this great deal. Target, an awesome place to get everything you need for life, gives us the opportunity to get some culture and see some art on Target Fridays. Every Friday from 4pm to 8pm you can enter MOMA for free!! FREE!! -PROCESS FOR FREE ADMISSION FRIDAYS (from 4pm to 8pm) Never having been to MOMA on Fridays during there free admissions period, I naively believed that all I had to do was walk into the museum get my free ticket and enjoy. My bf and I were completely astonished when someone directed us to the back entrance where had to line up for the free tickets and saw that the line was incredibly long. Don't be a fool like me. Come a little before 4pm (it helps to be ahead of the crowd when you come into the museum) and double check with an employee where you have to wait for the free admission. When my bf and I came, we queued on W54th St. btw 5th and 6ave (Ave of Americas), that is the street behind MOMA's outdoor area. The line was nightmarishly long, but it moved fairly quickly once they started distributing tickets. -REGULAR ADMISSION PRICE Adults  $25 Seniors (65 and over with ID)  $18 Students (current ID)  $14 The admission tickets are very overpriced, especially for New Yorkers. If you are a tourist, I guess it can be worse, the museum has lots of floors with a lot of works to see. You get to see a lot of original iconic work from famous artists such as Andy Warhol and Vincent Van Gogh. The tickets are pricey but it is worth it. If you are a resident New Yorker, live in one of the five boroughs/Long Island or if you can easily commute from NJ, the $25 admission price is whack! Come here during the free admission period on Friday from 4pm to 8pm. When I use to go to CUNY Hunter I was able to get into the museum for free. I believe that all students with a CUNY student i.d. can go in for free. Unfortunately, now I go to a crap private school, so CUNY students please utilize your i.d.s! According to the website, the line to purchase general admission tickets is usually longest when MoMA opens, so consider arriving after 11:30 a.m. -THE THEATRES MOMA has 2 theatres where they screen various films on. You have to pay separately for film admissions. Adults  $12 Seniors (65 and over with ID)  $10 Students (with current ID) $8 Free Friday Nights, film tickets are free from 4:00 to 8:00 p.m -HOURS Sat to Thurs  10:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Friday  10:30 a.m.-8:00 p.m -OVERALL Great museum with astonishing works of art. The temporary work affects your experience for better or for worse.
Went today and loved it.  As so many others have already written great descriptions of the building and its features, I'll focus on what I enjoyed most this visit: 1) The de Kooning and Diego Rivera exhibits, which are must sees.  Both are crowded, but cope with it - otherwise, you will miss an incredible experience. 2)  Go with a friend and visit the sculpture gallery.  Take silly photos of each other next to the sculptures.  Best to do this during good weather - in other words, before this Thursday!  Ignore stares from visitors.  They are just jealous that they didn't think of this idea. Have a great time!
I don't get it. The 5th floor was good and the rest looked like a collection of found objects. It was very busy.
de Kooning is Kool, at least he tries with color, I guess; but it's just American art, so sentimental, conceptually vacant. I wish I could say more about the exhibit but nothing was said or shown. The most musical notes came as a result of seeing Henry Luce Foundation sponsored the exhibit. That song by the band Luce, "Buy a Dog" popped into my head, and stayed there for the rest of the day.
There's so much to look at here!!  I try to come here when its free but I still don't mind paying for it.  I'm very much into art and I can spend a whole Saturday here.  There's just so much to look at and enjoy.
What can I say about this place... meh!!!. I mean look, I love art galleries, but this place always seems to be filled... and filled with the guided tour head phone brigade.. Not that there is an thing wrong with that, I mean if people what to be told how to interpret art fine, they are welcome to that way of living. The best way to see MoMA is in less than an hour, get in, see one level and get out... Sure I still get free entry but I could not say that I would go there if I had to pay the money... there is so much amazing art in this city not to get suck behind the "been there tick it off the list people"
I am definitely not an expert of art.  I thumb my nose at the religious frescoes.  But I do love European works from the 1400's onward, and if you do too then there is no better place than the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.  Only Paris had a better collection at the Orsay.  But at MOMA, even the most novice art observer will find works they know from Van Gogh to Renoir to Monet to Chagall and even American Andy Warhol. I saw my favorite Van Gogh, "Starry Night".  They also had my favorite Marc Chagall painting "I and the Village".  There were also paintings by Picasso, Gaugin, Monet, Cezanne, Matisse, Dali, Pollock and Warhol. The layout of the museum is excellent and flows nicely even with a plethora of visitors. Read more: http://blog.travelpod.co…
I like it. I wish I could call out pieces and comment on them with a scholarly perspective. I wish I could point out the exquisite blending of lighting, form, and presentation to create what stands before me, but really, I'm just as clueless as the next person. This museum did help me reaffirm my partialness towards my favorite photographer though: http://www.alexprager.co… .
Modern art generally isn't my thing. Don't get me wrong - I love Van Gogh, Picasso, impressionist art, and even some Pollock. But the weird art with blank canvases, women on TV screens moving their face around and bubble gum wrappers scattered on the floor - I just don't get it.   Luckily MoMA is divided up. The 5th floor is full of Monet, Picasso, Matisse, Dali, Van Gogh, Seurat, Klimt, etc.  There are many great paintings and famous ones including Dali's The Persistence of Memory (the melting clocks) and Van Gogh's Starry Night.  I really enjoyed the 5th floor. The 4th floor is mostly full of the type of modern art I don't get into.  The exception was the Pollocks and a few others that are more abstract but not installations, etc. I also took a guided tour of the Diego Rivera exhibition. Some art snobs scoff at people taking guided tours - you're supposed to "interpret the art for yourself" yadda yadda. To them, I say get a life and leave me alone. I enjoy the art much more when I understand the background, history, and context around the art. I didn't know much at all about Diego Rivera before this, but his art was much more interesting when I learned the context around why and how he had created it. Highly recommend the guided tour! Given my limited time, I only went through the exhibition and 4th/5th floors - but there are some other sections on photography, architecture and drawings. I'd recommend visiting MoMA if you're interested in modern art, although I enjoyed visiting the Mets modern art gallery more. MoMa is also pretty crowded and loud given its smaller size and popularity.
I have to say, I disagree with their decision to change the admission fee from $20 to $25. I get in for free because I have a Baruch ID from when I took a (scholarship-funded) business class, and I'm grateful that I've been using that for a few years. When/if it expires I am just going to spend my life complaining about how I can't go to the MoMA. It's also painful that employees of the most uncreative, drone-filled corporations get free passes. That's the equivalent of giving me a season pass to the Yankees. I'd go like, once, sit there, maybe venture to say, "I have no idea what's going on. What's going on?" and then I'd leave.
Wow - Free on Fridays! Now, that's the ticket! After all the years I have lived here I never visited the MoMa. Now that they offer free admission on Target Free Fridays from 4-8 PM it made this recent excursion there a no brainer. Yes, it can be a bit crowded with both tourists and locals alike, but by 6PM it really was not too bad. Spread out over five floors and an outside sculpture garden there is more than enough to see and experience. I did a quick walk through to check out most of the floors, but I would suggest going there over a few visits to really take your time to see everything and soak it all in. There are many different "styles" of art here. Some are really dramatic, some are classic, some are modern, some are eccentric. It all depends on each person's taste and what they define "art" as. From paintings, to sculptures, to video, to photography, to the abstract. "Bail of Hay" anyone? Each floor features a category and the artists that worked within each realm. From the classic ( Cezanne, Salvatore Dali, Matisse, Picasso, van Gough ) to the modern era (Jackson Pollack, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Jasper Johns ) and many others are represented. The sculpture garden is whimsical with fountains and spots to sit and relax, the painting and sculpture floors feature room after room to browse through, and the architecture and design floor offers up some interesting exhibits and artifacts. The photography rooms alone offered up some striking imagery. Just an amazing place if you enjoy art, and have an open mind to all aspects of it. There is something for everyone's liking here. Plus, its free on Fridays! Gotta love that!
I'm not a huge museum fan, but the boyfriend was dying to come here. I pretty much echo Juliette's opening comments.   The place was packed on an early Saturday morning, with groups, families, couples & singles.  Luckily, we got our tickets online (& got a discount for doing so).   Five floors of exhibits & some floors with cafes.  I appreciate the guided audio tour; but yes, it is a bit distracting when you're trying to look at things & a group of people are just stopped in front of you. They have permanent exhibits, as well as rotating ones.  I loved the garden outside.   The museum is clean & organized well & employee presence all over the place.  You definitely need to allow yourself a great deal of time to explore everything & get your money's worth.
I loved this museum.  The layout was easy to follow and the collections were amazing.  I really liked that they let you take pictures (w/o flash) of the pieces.   It was cute to see the groups of kids learning about art as well although Im sure some snobby artsy fartsy people could probably find that annoying. The sculpture garden is great and I imagine would be a nice escape during the work week as they have chairs where you can sit and read a book or just admire the beautiful works all around you.
I always forget just how amazing a museum MoMA is until I return. This time, I had the great fortune of going with a beautiful woman who happens to be a museum educator, so we both got in for free! The de Kooning retrospective was incredibly curated. I don't even like de Kooning, but wow, was that an amazing thing to see. Sanja Ivekovi: Sweet Violence was absolutely incredible. The short films that they paired with it, showing people's reaction to the piece was absolutely necessary to give context to the piece and really made it stand out. I'm still thinking about it 24 hours later. The Fluxus exhibition and the Contemporary Galleries were also incredible. I spent 4 hours there and barely even saw anything. I'm definitely going to need 2 or 3 more afternoons to feel like I've seen anywhere close to everything MoMA has to offer.
The 1st time I was in NY we went to the Museum of Natural History.  The 2nd time I was in NY we went to the Met.  So this time, it's only natural that we hit up the MoMA.  While the entrance fee was a little steep, the boy got a free ticket since he's a Columbia student. The special exhibition on the 6th floor featured the works of Wilem de Kooning.  I am a total art zero but just the fact that a collection was able to capture several decades of an artist's work was impressive enough.  There was also a photography special exhibit that was going on on the 2nd floor.  We were both super excited to see the Architecture & Design permanent exhibit but it was underwhelming & smaller than we had anticipated. There is a free audio guide that is available in exchange for a personal ID.  The MoMA store across the street had some really good stuff in it but they were super pricey for my recent-graduate budget.
Free on Fridays from 4-8pm. Went through everything in 2.5 hours. Should start on the 5th floor and work yourself down because those collections are must see like the starry night and the scream. You can also get a free audio tour for free but in exchange for your Id.
Get some Culture up in ya!! I love the MOMA and have been a member since I moved to NYC.  In my opinion the best permanent collection in all of NYC.  The membership is totally worth it!! You get $5 guest passes and in for free for yourself! It is awsome --if you are thinking about it, do it! You also get in free to PS1 in the summer!! Bonus! :) Why it's so great: 1. Its huge! Tons of art to see -has some very famous pieces in the permanent collection 2. Free audio guides -really helps you learn about the art 3. Awesome outdoor garden 4. Good café! I tend to stick to the top floors 5&6.  Unless there is something cool in the special exhibits. What you must see: 1. Monet's Water Lilies -this is my favorite piece! And hard to miss it takes up an entire room.  I find it really peaceful 2. Pablo Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon: Picasso has several pieces throughout the museum, but this one is one of the most famous.  You will see lots of Picasso! I especially love his painting of his 'teenage mistress'.   3. Vincent van Gogh's Starry Night -this is the most famous, but if you look around he has several paintings in the same room! 4. Salvador Dalí : "Illumined Pleasures"   --Dali is out of control crazy, I love every piece, I belive the MOMA has 4-5 of them -try to see them all. They are tiny!
My experience at the MoMA was likely different than most others. I attended the "Poprally" event (1/21/12) that consisted of live dj's (two blondes), light shows, deep bass, free drinks (Brooklyn Brewery) and access to the art exhibits. I had a dank time. I see other reviews and think that the people who waited in line did something wrong or maybe it was their first time attending a free drink event or maybe, just maybe they didn't know the event coordinator...Sorry! Ill attend any and all POPrally events! (Get the drinks early before they run out)
MoMA is one of my all-time favorite museums of any kind anywhere in the world.  I try to get here every few years; I've been lucky to manage a visit to its "new" location a couple times so far.  I love this newest space -- it's huge, it's open, it's bright, it's modern.  It's the perfect backdrop for this jaw-dropping collection of world-class art. When you think of quintessential modern art, many of the works that spring to mind are part of MoMA's permanent collection: Van Gogh's "Starry Night" Picasso's "Les Desmoiselles d'Avignon" Matisse's "Dance" Duchamp's "Bicycle Wheel" Dalí's "Persistence of Time" Eames chairs Lawrence's "Migration Series" Andrew Wyeth's "Christina's World" Giacometti sculptures Johns' "Target with Four Faces" Warhol's "Gold Marilyn Monroe" Magritte's "False Mirror" Close's "Self-Protrait" Monet's "Water Lilies" Plus countless other startling, provocative, enthralling pieces.  I love whiling away hours at MoMA.  I'd say this museum is a national treasure for sure.
Love. Love. Love. If you have a passion for modern art, this is your place! They always have the greatest exhibits and lots of space! (although the bottom gallery can get a little crowded) I've come here many times over the years, but by far, one of the best exhibits is the de Kooning show that's there now. It's huge! They have so many pieces from all throughout his life. Make sure you get the free audio tour--it really helps! Plus, if you're hungry they have two restaurants. The cafeteria-style restaurant is reasonably priced for how good the food is. Also, be sure to check out the store! (members get a 10-20% discount, pretty clutch around Christmas time!)
Worth the price of admission - on Fridays, when it's free (every friday, 4 - 8:30pm). Some of the stuff in here will blow you away - the pictures did it for me, ranging from gritty black and whites of war zones, to a truly interesting semi-nude of a 73 year old woman. Some of the stuff is worth a look - true "designer" furniture, a crossbow, models of city-design plans. Some of the stuff will remind you that you're in the Museum of MODERN art - big room with big white sheet hanging from the ceiling. Whatever your cup o' tea, it's a cool place to spend a couple hours on a free friday. The only annoying thing is listening to the people that take themselves far to seriously. To wit, I witnessed this conversation: Girl #1: "It's a birdcage." Girl #2: "NO! It's a BIRDcage." [while looking at something that was NOT A BIRDCAGE]
FRIDAYS 4-8PM FREE ADMISSION! Needless to say, it was super packed!   I liked their variety of art.  I started on the top floor, which had the more traditional, old-school paintings such as Van Gogh, Monet, etc.  As you descend towards the main floor, the art become more contemporary and abstract.  I can't say that I understood everything, but it was still pretty cool to walk around and look at all the displays.  My favorite was one of the special exhibits that showcased the mixing of art and technology.  There was also a sculpture garden on the patio of the ground floor, but I didn't go. Extra star for having comfy seats on each floor.  I was exhausted from walking around the city all day. I am not an art student, so I apologize if I used any incorrect art lingo.  No angry comments please!
It certainly is, Free that is, on Friday nights that is. Just beware of stampedes of tourists on busy holiday weekends, like Friday, December 30th, in which case the museum will not let people in after a certain point. We were lucky one of us had a corporate member discount. It is easy to get overwhelmed here, and so as a local I get the pleasure of coming for the special exhibits only. My muse of the evening was -  Sanja Ivekovi: Sweet Violence. A feminist, an activist and an artist. Otherwise, we made another stop on the 6th floor to view the lifetime of work of de Kooning.
You and I both know, MoMA is one of the world's best museums.  I am writing this review to give you this one tip: buy your tickets online before you visit or else you will be waiting in line.  This is especially true during heavy tourist seasons, like the holiday season. We thought we were going walk up to the doors and buy a ticket and go in recently, a few days after Christmas.  I was shocked to discover a line that nearly reached 6th Avenue.  A kind lady who was keeping the line organized advised us to visit the website and buy tickets for tomorrow or wait 2-3 hours in this line. The tickets online also give you a little break in the price, $22.50 instead of the $25.00 at the door.
This is my third favorite Art museum (first is the National Museum of Contemporary Art in Havana, Cuba, second is the Art Institute of Chicago, third is Museum of Modern Art, NYC)! One of my favorite things in this museum is the 4rth floor which hosts a large selection of Architecture and Design items, from paper tables, to Le Corbusier chairs, cabbage cushions, psychedelic light bulbs, the creativity in this room always blows my mind. Obviously as one of the more respected museums of modern art in the country this one has a solid collection of art. From sculptures by Rodin, to a great selection of Impressionist, Cubist and Surrealist works, as well as German Abstract Expressionism (one of my favorite periods in art), they have some Egon Schiele and the most respectable names in Modern Art that you know, you will surely find their work represented here (not really feeling like name-dropping). I also love their Temporary Exhibits. They are most impressive and they are the main reason why i visit this museum every time i am in New York City. In fact i will be in NYC for work next week and will be making time to visit. Especially their Alejandro Jodorowsky film night which will be happening while i am out there. Be sure to check out this museum's film screenings and special lectures and events. If you live in the city, might be worth it to get yourself a membership and become a patron of the arts. The MOMA store is my least favorite part of the museum, not really that exciting when in contrast with the grandeur and creativity you find inside the actual museum. Some good sales but overall best to spend your time seeing and experiencing rather than shopping for souvenirs. NOTE: MOMA is closed on Tuesdays!
I adore the MoMA - I just don't adore the unbelievable amount of tourists. It's very hard to get lost in an exhibit when you have a screaming child next to you who OBVIOUSLY doesn't want to be there. Photography exhibits are always brilliant and are continually my favourite pieces. Even though it's a massive battle to get through, you can't visit without making your way to Level 5 for Painting and Sculpture I. Even though it's a permanent exhibit, it's breathtaking every time.
I'm not the type of individual who really understands art so I am not reviewing MoMA's exhibits, but rather the museum as a venue for events.   It has an amazing floor layout that accommodates a large number of guests for parties and it is very conveniently located.   The staff members (this really encompasses everyone from the servers to coat-check folks to security) are so helpful and really go out of their way to accommodate you.   Great place to visit, but even more amazing is that they will work with you to design your event to your liking (whether it is an after-party or corporate engagement), the possibilities are endless and your wish is their command.  Amazzzing time spent with you guys!
It's a museum. You really can't critize the museum for the are it has. Overall, the staff seemed friendly. The art was organized neatly. I had fun!
"Modern art...makes me...want to...rock...OUT!" Actually it doesn't.  That was just an Art Brut lyric that was stuck in my head the entire time I was at MoMA.  Really, modern art makes me want to scratch my head and wonder how much free time the artists who make it have.  And how much free money the buyers who consume it have. That being said..."[The Museum of M]odern [A]rt...makes me...want to...rock...OUT!" See, far from just displaying a sponge thrown at a canvas by some guy in Williamsburg that somehow sold for a million dollars, MoMA has all of the big names of randomness like Salvador Dali, Pablo Picasso, and Vincent van Gogh.  People that even someone who was forced to sit through a middle school art class can name.  And their most famous pieces too.  Though, personally, I prefer Andy Warhol and the other pop artists.  And there's a lot of them here too.  If they've make fun of advertising or marketing, they're probably here.   With six *full* floors of collections (they use the floors, walls, and ceilings to display), museum is huge.  And far from just sculpture and painting, there are also exhibits on film and performance art from artists still producing in the style.  It's time consuming even if, like me, someone scoffs at half of the pieces and walks on. I went on a free Friday and one thing that I have to say was that I would have paid the regular $20 for sure.  However, even if I wasn't broke, free Friday is worth it just to people watch.  Every nationality on Earth seems to be represented in the crowd and to see the different reactions to some of the more, um, "controversial" pieces is priceless.  It's a great way to see how different the sensibilities of people in the United States differ from the rest of the world. Most of the art, however, is family friendly.  And, hey, if the kids don't get it, it's okay.  A lot of people don't.  One thing is for sure from the "really?"s that were in the air from different people (in all languages).  Every piece of modern art isn't for everyone, but the Museum has at least a little something for anyone.
I won't pretend to be any sort of art aficionado. I've taken some art classes in my day and I have some talent with a paint brush or a pencil, but I often get impatient at museums and I can't name half of the artists that a good art connoisseur should know. That said, I tend to avoid the MoMA. It's expensive, it's crowded and it tends to seem built more for serious "art people" and tourists (an odd mix, I know) than for casual culture-hungry locals such as myself. I usually end up going to the Met because I can pay what I want and usually can lose myself in some obscure wing that no one else knows about. But hungry for a change of scenery, I came to the MoMA a few weeks ago. I coughed up the steep entry fee and I got my complementary audio guide. The Diego Rivera murals were on display and did not disappoint. In a rare display of commitment, I walked from painting to painting, listening to every piece of audio commentary available. I was quite proud of myself. Wandering the other galleries, I was reminded of why the MoMA is such a popular New York attraction. It is a spectacular place with an even more spectacular collection of art. I even felt a welling of civic pride that all of these internationally recognized masterpieces were located right here in MY city! I'm glad I gave the MoMA another chance. I'm glad I stepped out of my comfort zone and parted with a bit of money to experience one of the greatest cultural institutions in the world.
I love summer. I love Friday. I love First Fridays at the MoMA when admission is free from 4-8pm here. While it's in a close race with the Met as the "best museum in NYC" I just think it depends on the style of art you prefer. There are some pretty out there pieces here (giant bale of hay, anyone?) along with some really incredible well-known artists (Picasso, Frida Kahlo, Pollack). Their modern furniture exhibit is definitely worthy of a gander - well, everything is worthy of a look-see actually. On the 4th floor (?) you can stop for a coffee to keep ya going. There's truly so much to see here though you should put aside a few hours to take it in. And then if you're real lucky, sup at the Modern - a truly delicious end to a day.
The MOMA is my least favorite museum. There's an incredible amount of pretentious garbage here. What a big waste of space and money. Only Van Gogh's ever-popular Starry Night mesmerizes but it's enclosed in glass therefore you can't get close lest a museum guard will physically push his body toward you and scold you. The only redeeming aspect is that it hosts educational readings such as Combatant Status Review Tribunals, pp. 002954-003064: A Public Reading.
The MoMA is like the Radiohead of museums in New York. It's pretty mainstream but still alternative and modern as hell and just great in general. Now if only the MoMA would offer pay-what-you-want admission. It's the place to bring friends who have a short attention span or aren't too interested in art history. Each gallery is pretty small and the collections extremely varied in subject matter. Since the focus is modern art, various topics like furniture, home appliances, typography, and architecture are all things that the museum is interested in exploring.  No endless halls of portraits or scenes of mythology will be plastering these walls. Sorry, Peter Paul Rubens! If you wait for it, there are micro-moments when the crowds of people seem to magically part like the Red Sea, and it's just you and Starry Night or Water Lilies alone. These are lovely moments I won't ever forget.
My favorite museum in New York City. It has had some of the best and weirdest exhibitions I've ever seen. Come when it's free on Friday's from 4pm-8pm. I have only paid once ($20) to see the Tim Burton exhibition and it was well worth it! Take time to browse the MoMa store - great place to buy presents. When the weather is nice, take time to sit in the garden. After browsing the MoMA, go across to the Halal Cart on W 52nd & 6th to replenish your energy.
Classic. This museum has lots of artworks by all the greats. pretty establishment though, not a good place for a young emerging artist to try to get a show. you'll probably just get lost in a sea of bureaucracy. Or flat out rejected!  If you're already pretty famous this could be a cool place for you to show at. a good tactic is to have a full scale installation of your sculptures in the atrium and then fill the top floor special exhibitions section with work too.
I'm not really sure what to say about the MoMA that hasn't been said. Diego Rivera is one of the few artists I know much about, and I absolutely loved the exhibit they had of his work. The fact that they had the actual correspondence between Rivera and Rockefeller's lawyers was amazing. My advice on the MoMA (and all other museums) is not to try to see it all at once. There's too much, and it's overwhelming. In addition, if you're visiting New York there's likely to be a ton of other stuff you want to do in the city. Plus if you're walking everywhere and spending every waking moment on your feet you'll be tired when you hit the MoMA and not enjoy it as much, Instead, with museums like this you're better off picking two or three exhibits at most you want to look at. Plan to be there for two hours and then go do something else. Sure, it's more expensive that way, but it will make the museum feel more exciting and less like an obligation.
I do not have an artistic eye, nor do I appreciate too many works of art or art pieces. For me, contemporary art and modern art reeks! Drawing a ruler on paper is NOT art...paint on the floor? Umm, no. Foods that you ate for a year? C'monnnn.... I enjoyed the performances held for the evening which were Asian orchestra accompanied by dancing geishas...beautifully orchestrated steps in sync with the tune of the band! Perfect hand placement, head movements, right down to the eyes and fingers were in sync for these performances. If you don't appreciate works of art, then I suggest getting tickets for a show at the MOMA...and then browsing the floors.
I love modern art.  I am partial to the Art Institute in Chicago and the Smithsonian National Gallery of Art, but no one beats MoMA. It's six floors of iconic artists and their work.  You name the artist and he/she is here.  I could have come here for several straight days before tiring of the work.  I gladly paid the $25 to walk through these halls.  It's a cathedral of art
This is a great museum.  I really enjoyed my visit here, more so than other modern art museums in NYC.  The galleries were very well organized, staff friendly and informative, and the art was very accessible.  This was one of my favorite attractions while visiting NYC.
I would say this is my second favorite museum (right behind American Museum of Natural History) only because the donation here is not suggested, its mandatory.  However the artwork here is always exquisite.  The abstracts and modern impressionists are what I love the most about this museum.   My favorites here are the paintings that look like a blank canvas because there is so much interpretation that can happen.  I have a very creative imagination so I stare at those the longest.  My date was always perplexed as to why I would stand there for 15 minutes, take a picture of it, and then say out loud "I get it."  Luckily, I was her ride home and she had no choice but to deal with my way of viewing art. On a more seriously note, I loved the photography section containing photos taken from the 50 years ago.  Pictures of simpler times with harder struggles.  What I DONT like is a security person telling me I'm too close to a photo.  Am I going to breath on the photo and fog the glass frame?  what a power tripping glorified crossing guard. Heartland Brewery is right down the block so go there around joking around the museum and having serious art connoisseurs stare at you in disgust.  You deserve it after spending 50 dollars for two at a museum that's technically government property and should be free to you because you technically own it.
The MOMA has always been one of my favorite museums in the world. I've been to hundreds of Art Museums and few if any have held a candle to the MOMA. I Hadn't been back to the MOMA since the redesign and I was so excited to get to see it again. I came away slightly disappointed. The big problem I have was the combination of over-attention (how many Picassos and Legers does a museum need to show?) and under-attention (not a single Rothko, one Jackson Pollack) to pieces they have in their collections and have, at times, had on long-term display. I get that Picasso is a major draw and a hugely significant piece of the story of modern art, but the Abstract Expressionists are equally if not more important and they have an amazing collection of the works. It was so sad. The stuff that I have to see every time I visit was there and happy to see me, I think. The Dalis, the Kurt Schwitters DaDaist pieces, the Barnett Newmans and Oldenburgs and Rousseaus and so so many others that I love. But still, the inattention to the Abstract Expressionists wore on me. The architecture and Design exhibits were really strong, but they've always been. I also liked the fact that Phillip Glass was there when I was and had no problem chatting with anyone who came up! The best piece I'd never seen before was The Wilderness Downtown HTML5 thingee where you enter the address where you great up and the programme plays through a series of windowed events. It was fantastic and not jsut because I love me some Arcade Fire. With the 25 dollar price, I'd say it was worth it, but it wasn't what I had hoped it would be. The free audio guide was a very nice touch, though.
I love this place for no other reason than the surrealist art particularly the Rene Magritte works.  I was introduced to Magritte when their collection toured Houston a number of years ago, and I fell in love.  Who cares if he was a misogynist?  ;) I am taking a star away because when I was there last November I only saw two pieces of his art.  The rest must have been in other museums.  At any rate, I was not happy. Here's a piece of advice to all the people looking for places to go in NYC.  If you don't like modern art and design, DON'T GO HERE.  You're taking up space and making the crowds nearly unbearable on the weekends. Other than that, their outdoor sculpture garden is absolutely amazing.  The way it is situated in reference to the surrounding buildings, the seeming haven of serenity in the mad chaos of NYC...I could spend an afternoon here.
I enjoyed my time at the MoMA, I thought $25 was a lot; luckily I got in free. I feel like I do not appreciate modern art as much as I wished I could appreciate modern art. With that said I think my one trip has satisfied my desire to visit for some time. At the same time I am happy I got to see starry night again as well as some of Cézannes work.
The MOMA is not one of my favorite museums, it's actually only a step up from the Guggenheim. It's got some great works of modern art and even some classics stored up in its walls. But honestly, about 70% of the art could have been done by a preschooler throwing random pieces of airplane parts together. Yes I understand that perhaps the artist put together the airplane parts in such a way to "express" himself but again, it's not all that impressive for the most part. Seriously, a group of people "analyzing" a man-made mousehole with Tom and Jerry music playing in the background? Two "grad students" wearing their scarves and American Apparel clothes contemplating the different tones that resonate from a vacuum cleaner glued to a green canvas? yeah...stop pretending to be so deep. Call me unable to appreciate art, but I prefer the Met over this place anyday and I prefer analyzing the tonality of Chopin anyday. That stuff was true genius. This is just wannabe genius. Overall, I like this place because 1. it holds some good art pieces (some as in less than 30% of the art displayed) and 2. I spent probably half the time just laughing at how ridiculous some of the displays were and even more so how in depth the "cultured" people were trying to figure it out. Guys, get a job.
My favorite museum!!   Maybe I'm biased, but as a Graphic Designer who has done work in many modern mediums, this place is an inspiration!  Perhaps one day, my work would be featured in here. I got so excited when I saw the room fill with typography and print ads, people don't believe me when I say this - yes, it takes a team of people to make a spot on TV or a billboard that you see on the side of freeway just to tell you when and where to tune into your favorite TV show!!!  I show my family what I do for a living, and they say, "okay, so... you, TYPED IT?"  urg! Aside from the fabulous collection of art, which by the way, many famous pieces resides here - from Monet to Warhol, it's got the best gift shop I've ever stepped inside of a museum.  Not only you can get a print of any art you see at the Museum, you can also get it send it home for you if you're in NY visiting and don't feel like carrying it back with you on the plane.  It also has contemporary designed gadgets from toys to useful kitchen utensils you can purchase.  And the book selections are amazing too!! My first visit to the museum I didn't get there early enough, so I didn't get to finish the entire place.  2nd time I wised up, I even set aside time for the gift shop!  I think I spent about 2 hours in there just touching everything!! Don't forget to stop in the architecture section, I believe that part is a permanent collection.  They display the top candidate designs of the rebuilding of ground zero, Freedom tower's original concepts and how it turn into the way it is now... interesting read. One of my favorite exhibition at Moma was Talk to Me.  It displayed modern technologies that was designed for people to communicate... from TV spots to experimental pieces, to video games.  Kinda of like arts for Nerds.... LOL  totally my cup of tea, so I loved it. De Kooning was the special exhibit on the 6th floor when I was there last month, I'm not a huge De Kooning fan, but it's interesting because MOMA displayed his art work chronologically, you can see his work evolving every corner you turn. They also had a smaller Diego Riviera exhibition on the 2nd floor, displaying some of his most famous pieces and the story behind it.   At the special exhibitions no photography is allowed (if it's owned by Private collector), the permanent collections you can take photos with no flash.   Make sure you leave room to shop the gift shop on the ground floor, well worth it.  Their website actually sells a lot of it, but don't you rather be there touching it and playing with the toys?  I mean, I do...
The outdoor sculpture garden is fantastic!  Get a nice gelato and enjoy the artwork.
Place MOMA at the top of your list of places to visit in the city.  Its a fabulous activity for adults and or families with children. The museum is large and spacious and home to some of the best modern art/design the world has to offer.  Many of the installation art pieces are exciting and enchanting to adults as well as children.   Take the time to visit during the weekday early morning if you wish to avoid big crowds.  Our last visit was in January and it was bananas! It was on a Friday afternoon (FREE admittance), yikes! We made do and enjoyed our visit but it was busy, very busy!.     Their cafe offers up a broad menu of fairly good food should you get hungry during your visit, the prices are ok, no great deals but they don't take advantage of you either.
Came here on a free admission Friday night.  Great vibe and energy
The Diego Rivera exhibit that's currently being displayed on the 5th floor of MOMA makes the price of admission and the trip down there worth it.  The museum is already adorned with talented works from such artists as Dali, Kahlo, and Picasso, but the Diego Rivera exhibit is special because his art illustrates history and society during his life but through the eyes of his particularly vivid and somewhat surreal imagination.  His usage of large murals and wall works in fresco contributed greatly to the Mexican Mural Movement.  Each painting tells the story of a man who is genuinely impressed with the anonymous effort that goes into daily struggles for greater goals that outweigh each individual worker.   His paintings in New York City showed how he viewed the skyscraper boom in the 30s as remarkable yet hypocritical because so many anonymous faces are behind the scenes toiling away for a greater, more majestic goal while it comes at the same time as homelessness and monetary hoarding during the Great Depression, which in large part comes as a result of the skyscraper boom.  His works contrast Capitalism with Communism while showing an appreciation for the common man and his daily toils.  One mural in particular literally bisected the mural in the center by making each side symmetrical to a monument center, yet each side tells a different political story.  The left side of the mural represents a Capitalist society while the right side is a Communist society.  This is evident through what the population is doing and what their surroundings are.  The mural was taken down at Rockefeller Center's opening due to the depiction of Lenin on the Communist side.  The exhibit is a look into Mexican- American history, a man's passion, and the unique way in which he viewed the world.  His wife, Frida Kahlo, has equally impressive works of art, but only a few at this museum.  They are mostly self-portraits, but Kahlo's overall work in my opinion is about as respectable as Rivera's despite the disparity in their notoriety.  Either way, I love the Western concepts in his art like capturing the spirit of deserts and canyons.  He can also make a beautiful representation of a Mexican town just on a torn out piece of notebook paper.  He shows how art exists in abundance in even the most simple and rustic circumstances in life. He shows how capturing the essence of a place and the life energy of that place through drawings can immortalize the energy of that time and place forever.
After seeing the 4th floor, I wasn't too impressed.  It's filled with that kind of art that anyone… Read more »
I will simply add to the chorus of great reviews for this wonderful museum.  I recently viewed its Willem de Kooning retrospective, which reminded me how lucky I am to live in a metropolitan area that has places and exhibits like this.  Simply wonderful.   Their free iPhone/iPad app has all of the museum's audio guides on it so bring one and your earphones next time and take a really great tour of your old and new favorites.   I have been here at least 40 times over the past ten years (my employer is a contributor so I get in free - yay!), and it never gets old.
Of course MoMA has one of the most impressive collections in the world. But right now it also has one of the best membership deals in New York. A whole year's membership costs $75 (for comparison, an adult day pass costs $20). It makes no sense, and they're changing the pricing structure this November. Lock in for two years while you can: as a member, you can visit whenever you want, and reserve no-cost movie tickets too. The people who can make the best use of this deal? Writers and freelancers. I like to grab an iced latte with the 10% food discount, break out my laptop in the oasis of the sculpture courtyard and type away while soaking up inspiration from the most tranquil office in Manhattan. The wifi's free and strong and inside you'll find power outlets aplenty.
Come on Target Fridays (free after 4 on Fridays)! The line is long, but it moves quite quickly. The MoMA is fun, with lots of eccentric and famous pieces~ My favorite is the Pollock pieces. GLORIOUS.
--for the MoMA Dance Party-- Let me preface this yelp by saying I usually love the MoMA, its an amazing museum, but for a dance party I would jitterbug somewhere else. I knew it wasn't meant to be when I arrived and had to wait 20 minutes in freezing temperatures. But considering how long the line was outside, it did move pretty fast. Once inside, our $20 ticket included an open bar, free music by the blondes and access to some open exhibits. It would have been a great experience had there not been an alcohol shortage. I am surprised there was no rioting, but nonetheless, I would have needed a continuous supply of alcohol before I was able to rub elbows with other museum goers.
I came here to do some research on an art piece that was displayed in the Yoshiko & Akio Morita Media Gallery.  I was taking notes and observations of the piece for a good hour.  The security could calm down just a bit when they were crowding me and I noticed the stares that were given to me, thinking that I was plotting to take the artwork.  I don't know if they noticed, I was taking notes on a VIDEO installation so it would be pretty hard for me to steal a projector mounted on the ceiling, and screen which was at least 3 feet from the top of my head, oh, and the video itself all while being the glorious height of 5'2"!
I love the MOMA, the SF one as well as the NYC one. The MOMA always has great exhibits and the little garden is just amazing, I love sitting there, reading and sipping a tea. I am also a big fan of the MOMA store, the best place to go shopping for gifts. You also have some great views of NYC from some of the windows. Cannot wait to be back in NYC and back at the MOMA. FIY: every friday from 4-8pm the admission to the MOMA is free ;)
The crowds used to be weekends/holidays/whenever European people had a holiday-now there NEVER seems to be a break. I just re-upped my membership for 2 years before they raise the prices; and am fixated on seeing as many films from The Contenders (oscar bait)  series as I can so far J. Edgar-next week tree of life and drive (which incidentally I have already seen but movies are meant for the theater. Titus 1 is a very nice place to see a movie-there are some cranky old people and eccentrics but you can deal. If you are a member you can reserve tickets in advance AND get up to 5 additional for $5 which is not bad considering the price of a movie in NYC is now averaging $13. Want to check out Dekoonig exhibit before it leaves.
Go see Marina Abramovic doing her performance piece: The Artist is Present. She sits at a table… Read more »
The renovation destroyed the amazing ambiance of what MOMA once was.  All that money spent, and a corporate lobby is all they came up with???  They took a spectacular landmark building and made it into a logistics nightmare for the art fan.  ALL the rooms are always far too crowded and getting around the museum is worse than confusing, it's very unnerving.   THAT SAID, I will always be a fan of their collection, it is one of the best in the world.  So if you are an art lover, then you should NEVER miss this museum if you haven't seen it ever.   I've been told that the most recent exhibits addressed some of the crowd movement issues, but being there many times now, I doubt they could have really fixed the problem.  Also, the staff is often incredibly rude...which is not what I usually come across in New York City.  Don't bring friends that don't like to walk a lot, or can be flustered by crowds.  You won't stay long enough to get the value out of the admission price.  They really have made one of the worst messes in Museum History as far as I'm concerned.  It totally discourages me from visiting a museum I used to practically live in and love with all my spirit.
Sure there are the Picasso, Matisse, Pollock displays, which don't get me wrong, are all awesome, An entire wall covered by a Monet? Yes please! I'll skip describing them. The current de Kooning exhibit is a great look at an American artist (we really need to work on that), and the photography collection is just as good. The iconic picture of the Empire State Building worker stating on a crane ledge, tying a cable hundreds of feet above the ground made me acrophobic just looking at it. Most interesting, "oh wow I learned something today" section though has to be... *puts on nerd glasses* ...The digital font display. If you are at all interested in graphic design, check it out. Typeface design is centuries old, consistently evolving for different needs and helps explain why how some fonts became so universal. My favorite from the exhibit? FF Beowolf, built with an algorithm of randomness so every keystroke is slightly different, even of the same letters. When displayed in a book, helps break up the uniformity of the words and sentences to help slow the reader's pace down
i visited 3 museums during my trip to NY and this one was my favorite! I went on a free admission day so it was super packed but i couldn't complain since it was free! even though the museum was super crowded the staff kept people organized and made the experience better. after seeing the exhibits here i was so inspired to do some art myself!
Other than the price, what's not to love?! The exhibits are unbelievable and very well organized. The special exhibits are also incredible - although they will result in an extra charge. The museum is definitely worth the price to have been there once or twice but it does stop me from visiting as frequently as I'd like to. And considering that other NYC museums, like the Met, do not require such a large charge, it makes it more difficult to tolerate the price.
I was actually told by my drawing professor to visit the MoMa. It's free for students from my school so yay! Normally I don't enjoy art museums very much (even though I'm an art student). They're just too big and too time consuming, I don't have the patience to go through the whole thing. However, I actually really enjoyed the MoMA. Sure, there were some older pieces, but there are also a lot of newer, more innovative exhibitions. It's a great place to go as long as you go with a full stomach and hours to spare. The place is huge.
Ah, MOMA, I do enjoy visiting you! Stopped by the Cindy Sherman exhibit and spent some time in the lovely sculpture garden. I always adore seeing the Giacomettis. My friend is a New Yorker, so I got to tag along on her membership, which was absolutely brilliant, because all I really wanted to see on that particular visit was the aforementioned artists. If I lived in New York, I would love to have checked out the Summer Fridays and new special exhibits.
Went here to see the Cindy Sherman exhibit and I was soo impressed with the layout of this exhibit. I had a new found appreciation for her work, thanks in large part to the Moma installation. Besides that, this museum is awesome!! Tons of fantastic pieces, beautiful outdoor garden. Loved it!! Well worth the hefty price tag...
I'm not much of a modern art girl. Everything always looks like I can make it too and its too abstract for my taste. I have to admit that MOMA was pretty cool. It reminded me a lot of Tate Modern (in London) in that its just a GIANT building with floors and floors of art. There are convenient escalators that take you to each floor and the theme of MOMA seems to be stark white. If you aren't a big fan of the funky modern art, there happens to be great art works from Van Gogh and fellow impressionists. I enjoyed the nice sitting area outside too. There are fountains and VERY uncomfy chairs that will give you grill marks if you are wearing shorts, but nonetheless a nice place to relax and take in some of the New York skyline. However, this wasn't the kind of museum that I could spend all day at and I felt a little disappointed that I had to pay $12 (student) to get in. If you are visiting New York for the first time, I would recommend skipping this museum (unless you are a die hard modern art lover) and using that time at the far superior Metropolitan Museum of Art. P.S. Admission to PS1 (MOMA's other location) in Long Island City is free with your MOMA ticket. I think it expires in 30 days.
I love MOMA! Such a great museum, with so many great pieces of art on display. I especially love Fridays where it is free to get in after 4, I don't think it gets better than that. Although, some exhibits perplex me, for instance oh hey its literally a stack of hay, or a piece of art i like to call "blinds thrown on floor", and "candy wrappers in corner". All I am saying is I am highly capable of producing art of this magnitude, where can I sign up to be an artist lol. All in all a great Museum, def worth checking out.
Really like this museum--they have a lot of famous pieces (...Starry night!!) . I lovelovelove the sculpture garden, and the cafe/food is pretty good. Probably the best museum gift shop I've ever been to... sooo much stuff to look at, and the line for checkout goes pretty quick, too. I *might* like MoMA more than the MET. I might have to think about it a little more, though. It's different. I love the technology floor, but I couldnt concentrate at the point because we worked our way from the top to the bottom, and our feet/brains were worn out by the time we hit the technology/art stuff on the lower floor. Overall very cool, pretty interactive museum. Pricey, though! If you're a student, don't forget your ID for that discount.
The permanent exhibits are worth alone the admission ticket. You don't get to see Van Gogh, Matisse, Picasso, Dali' (my favs) so often. The temporary exhibits are a hit-or-miss, but I like to walk around the interesting structure anyway, so I never regret paying the entrance fee. I'm not big on modern art, but if I had to save just one modern art museum in the world from the Apocalypse, the MOMA would be it.
The first thing about this place is THE PUBLIC RESTROOMS!!! I INDEED HIT THE JACKPOT!!!  Man! It's extremely hard to find a good public restroom around NYC.  I felt like MOMA is trying to replicate and multiply several of Marcel Duchamp's toilets! OH MAN! That was really artistic of MOMA!  It made my caboose extremely happy!!!!!! Anyways, if you only surround yourself with the Van Goghs, you're missing out other greats that is along with the Van Gogh area.  First of ready-made Marcel Duchamp, of course #1 abstract painter, Picasso, one of the first art nouveau artist, Gustav Klimt, Henri Rousseau (helped today's graphic-color print era), American era Edward Hopper (that's next to the elevator, which shouldn't be), Frida and more of Diego Rivera (if you're interested), the great surrealist, Salvador Dali (also a must in Metropolitan Museum of Art ), Pollock, Warhol (of course), Roy Lichtenstein, and more! Look for the free Friday nights so you could plan your itinerary and enjoy your use of their restrooms while you still can. ;)
This is my second favorite museum in all of NYC.  It's modern.. so you can't really complain.  I am not big into art.. but it's refreshing sometimes.  I love the huge swinging fan... I love the pieces of paper crumpled up that is supposed to mean pain... love it! I had a great time with my sister and gf... I would definitely recommend if you are feeling something less than the common treaded path (the Met).  I don't really remember the Art Shop or the cafe.. but I often don't go to museums for those things.
The MOMMA is currently free on Friday between 4-8 pm.  Well, we visited three museums during our vacation in New York (this time).  There were some great art but there were also some truly silly ones.  Come on a TV with the lucky chinese cats on top of it.  A rice cooker?!
What a amazing museum!  We spent several hours walking around and we enjoyed every minute of it.  … Read more »
Love it! Absolutely mind shattering considering it's free, and honestly it's not that crowded. Either line up EARLY (3:50pm or so), or very late, like 6:30pm. I came for the special exhibit, Talk to Me, which is a study of the way humans interact with objects (more specifically, computers, though there are some exceptions in this exhibit.) So that was awesome. I also saw the de Kooning abstract art exhibit which I was not as fond of since you can pretty clearly see the progression of: "I like to draw figures" to "I like to draw women" to "I like to draw abstract looking boobs, scary faces, and boxes that represent women's naughty bits" to "Ah screw it, I'll just draw meaningful-looking lines." (All the art students in the house are probably rolling over right now. That's okay, this is really just not my thing.) I was pleasantly surprised by the standing exhibits. I especially liked the abstract signs made by Marcel Broodthaers and the one that says, in French, "go look at this from the other side, out of one eye, for an hour." It's a piece of glass, so the next guy to come up will see you squinting at it trying to figure out what the hell is going on -- well, it's YOU that's going on. YOU'RE the exhibit now. :) There's also a cast iron cock-n-balls hanging from a string in one of the rooms. Love it. Echo the other reviewers saying to avoid the bag check - it's a shit show. Find some way to keep everything in your pockets. (Honestly, someone could make a lot of money next door doing an alternative coat check with a faster line.) Don't forget that your ticket stub, even the free one, includes a free admission to MoMa PS1 in L.I.C.!
I will keep this very short and brief. There are a zillion other reviewers who are into art that love this place. I am going to just say I am not into art perse' and I didn't enjoy going here. I can not walk through this place, stop at each exhibit and be impressed with what is being constituted as "art". Again I am speaking from opinion but 4 white pieces of paper on a wall does not constitute art (yes that was one of the exhibits). Hate me for not liking this place. I will give it 3 stars because I don't want to be cruel. And $25 admission...booo.
Love the MoMA. Great art, good location, generally good people. But had a meh experience last week. I brought luggage with a roller in and they said "sir you can't bring that here." I said "why not?" They said, "we don't have a place to store it for security reasons." I said, "that seems really odd--you must get a ton of tourists here. I'm happy to have you scan it, or x-ray it or whatever." They got really mad and went on a rant that was poorly reasoned and annoying. I'll still see the DeKooning later this month but definitely left a bad taste in my mouth.
Absolutely not... I can't believe they actually charge people to view this stuff... Most of it looks to have been done by an elementary school student. The Met, on the other hand... THAT's the place see!
Ok, I went again on my most recent trip to New York and loved the sculpture garden.  Saw the epic Cindy Sherman exhibit, which was overwhelming and impressive.  I was proud of myself for warning a mom with her 11 year old  daughter that the mom should check the halls herself before letting her daughter in.  There is definitely material not suitable for young children in the exhibit and sometimes even in the permanent collection.
First of all, this review is for the physical plant of MoMA and its management, not for the art it… Read more »
I'm quite familiar with this museum so here are some tips to avoid the crowd: - Don't go on a rainy day. If you thought going to a museum is a good way to spend a day indoors hiding from the rain, so did thousands of others, locals and tourists alike. - Try to avoid going during holiday time, it's high tourist season, and MoMA is indeed a tourist destination. - If you must go during a potential busy time, then don't bring a backpack or a long umbrella because you'll have to wait in the long checkroom line. - If you don't have a membership, buy your ticket online and print it out yourself to avoid lines at the desks. Happy art viewing~
Always an amazing museum--The museums in NYC are always too big to get through all.  Sometime near the 2nd floor I'm exhausted (oh-but you have three more floors?)   I still can't believe they are $25 to get in.
MOMA Friday nights in the summer are great. I'm a member and one benefit is sneak previews of exhibits before they open. I highly recommend this! Starry Night is one of my fav paintings of all time and I have to stop by the MOMA, its permanent home, every time I am in the area.
Wow.  Surpassed my expectations.  Worth frequent visits.  Cezanne and Pollock are my faves.
This place is usually packed on Friday evenings because it's FREE. It can seem overwhelming at first, but they organized it very well. If you are short on time, I recommend just visiting the fourth and fifth floors. They have the big names: Van Gogh, Pollack, Dali, Rothko, etc.. And then if you have some more time, go to the other floors. I really enjoyed the Talk to Me exhibition. It's very interactive and makes you think about what art is.
Breath taking. Customer experience is always excellent. Most staff are friendly (audio tour and check in people not so much). Five floors of spectacular exhibit circa 2011 backwards. There's some sexiness to see works of Picasso, Monet, Matisse and Van Gogh right before your eyes. I mean, seriously sexy. Seeing "Water Lilies" in person together with an audio explanation of what it's about it is well ... orgasmic. Have you heard about Starry Starry night? The painting is here. This is very child-friendly and very accessible for visitors in wheelchair. You are ALLOWED to bring cameras. Some hog their spots and take their time to take pictures. Some like to post in front or beside the artworks. Some just want to take pictures of the paintings. I wonder, can't they just download the pictures off the internet? That's when you use your elbows and apologize. Oops. There are three restaurants with three different price points. They all look pretty ambience-wise. I went to Cafe 2 as I was in a museum marathon. I ordered Cavatelli - not so great. You sit with others either quietly or "socially". I sat quietly and listened to the conversations of tourists and locals... different interesting perspectives. It's too much to go to all floors in one day - devote at least two days if you really want to explore it. Or, if your visit is short, pick a theme / gallery that you want to focus because there is just too much to see on one floor. Your visit can be exhausting. By the end of my visit, I had been standing for four hours. What a work out!
You'll love this place if you love Modern art.... Thumbs up to the guy who let my BFF and I in at the student discount when I told him we were students and we forgot our id.  I am a student, but my BFF isn't.  Thank guy!   Went on a monday, $20 bucks for adults, $12 for students. * a harness hanging from the ceiling surrounded by scribbles on the walls and floor around it.  Tvs on the side showing a woman hanging from the harness scribbling on the walls. * photo of a woman and her whole body wrapped in plastic. * photo of a man with his penis wrapped and on the table. * photo of a man's head wrapped in a plastic bag. * photos of some guy flipping off the camera in front of monuments such as the Eiffel tower and White house. * a painting of a big, irregular red circle and black scribbles under it. * duct tape on the wall in an unknown shape. * a wall of the same black and white photos....of yoko ono's saggy butt.   Just a few expressions of the "modern" art I viewed here at the MoMA.   Entertaining but a little too weird for me. haha    I"m just one of those who can't appreciate that genre of art.   I'm more into the classics, so the Louvre or LACM is more of my taste.  But they do have a few of the popular paintings from Dali, Diego, Van Gogh and Picasso.   There were other futuristic techy pieces of art like keyboards with an eating bowl and these smell adaptors for our noses-those were cool.   I always enjoy Andy Warhol's stuff, so it was nice to see some of his pieces.   They had an exhibit of scribbles and doodles - snore.  I believe this place has rotating exhibits but not sure what was on rotation here.   But it's a nice museum, very open, and not difficult to navigate around.  I do recommend checking it out at least once. I'm glad I went but I probably wouldn't go back.  Unless I was with a friend who really wanted to go....and will pay for my entrance fee :-)
Absolutely fabulous, of course.  My most recent trip to MoMA was for a Target Free Friday Night with a couple of friends.  As I understand it, there's usually a long line by about 3:30 on Fridays for the free admission, but since it was about 20 degrees when we went there was no such problem!  We took a few hours to wander most of the museum and loved it. I highly recommend trying to go on one of these free Friday nights, because my friends and I felt no pressure to try to see everything.  I am admittedly a bit of a dunce about modern art, and not paying for admission allowed me to breeze past the things I was less interested in without a second thought while spending more time looking at things I was intrigued by. The upper floors of the museum have the more traditional painting and drawing pieces, including the Van Goghs (which you can barely see since there are always at least 20 people standing in front of Starry Night).  But if you stick to the classics, you'll miss out on some of the most fascinating stuff-- we saw "Standard Deviations: Types and Families in Contemporary Design," the latest of MoMA's great architecture and design exhibits.  We were also lucky enough to be there during curry-serving time!  That's right, from 12-3 every day and 4-7 on Fridays, part of an installation by Thai artist Rikrit Tiravanija provides visitors with free little bowls of delicious vegetarian curry.  I'm not sure how long this is going on, but I highly recommend it!
How have I not Yelped MOMA until now?!  Geebus, it's only my favorite museum!! And as a frame of reference, I've visited museums in LA, DC, NY, and have also been to the Louvre.  I am biased to the contemporary offerings here is why I suppose. If you're a tourist in NY, I suggest what we did and get a combo deal of the MOMA and Top of the Rock.  Enjoy!!
I don't like it.  See, this place is huge, and there are a lot of tourists.  Unfortunately, the people go like this place often fall into "We're gonna say we're liberal because we hate America" crowd.  Mind you I tend to be quite liberal.  However, this art is "Revolutionary" in the propaganda sense: being a talentless hack, and then putting some symbolism in something to mean something.  We get it, that's really deep.  No seriously.  Its deep.  Not as deep as, say, a good work of art, but deep. I'm going to go back cause its free on Fridays and I didn't see all I wanted to.  Some of the stuff I'd have been more receptive to in a history museum.  Not an art museum.  Especially if its not modern. Then there's the grotesque, and a lot of it.  I'm sorry, but here's a newsflash: A shopping cart with bags around it isn't art, I see homeless people every day.  Perhaps you should take the money you make off that display and use it to feed the homeless.  And I understand you have a political statement to make, yes, you hate that dictator, and this isn't necessarily bad, but...its not art.  Its history.  Sorry. The historical stuff should probably not be in an art museum.  When you get rid of protesting dictators and nostalgia, you have things like like a sink with no facet or handles.  This isn't art.  This is a sink that you thought was art cause you were coked up. So yes, we get it.  You're a left winger who's gone to too much university and thinks you need to bring the man down.  Yawn.  I've seen this a bunch of times.  Therein lies the rub of this rant-I don't care if you're left wing or extreme.  But art is about more than politics or even "extremes"-most souls aren't extreme, and we can certainly see more to life than pain/cocaine.
This is one of my favorite museums on earth! Art history really comes to life here! There is a lot to see, and while it may not be as large as other world class museums, because it is jam-packed with treasures, you will want to take your time here! The staff and docents are very helpful here, and MoMA also offers audio guides which really do help to bring these works to life. My favorites here are the "Demoiselles D'Avignon" - which, art historically speaking, has been beaten to death in the classroom, so it is nice to spend a little time with these glaring, powerful ladies. Another favorite of mine here is Giacometti's  "The Palace at 4a.m." which is just so wonderful! Another awesome painting that I love, is Pollock's "One: Number 31" which, yes, in general his drip paintings get a bad rap, but  I just love "zoning out" in front of this one, the way that one might, while looking at the ocean or a lake. Overall, a wonderful museum. Photography is allowed, just not flash, as is the case in most museums!
Passionate modern art lovers, revel in a lovely afternoon bee-lining about from piece to piece. Starving artists and students, forget food and save a few dollars for your over-priced paint. You'll leave with a belly full because this is the feast for the eyes. Tip: Discounted admission for students, senior citizens and children. Draft/Note to add: Tim Burton.
Check out "Tutto" in atrium (Alighiero Boetti exhibit "Game Plan"): embroiders densely packed experience, the crazy crush of commercialism in color, magazine ad ghost images, silhouetted memories, the history burned onto our retinas.
Everyone who lives or visits NYC has to go to the MoMa. After living here for about 2.5 years I finally went here. Every Friday from 4-8pm it's FREE to get in... That wasn't a typo. It's FREE to get in as long as tickets are still available. It's sponsored by Target. This was one of the reasons I wanted to go on a Friday. After stepping in I was in exploration mode. I love art, seeing things that I have only seen on tv and read in books just overwhelmed me. It was a good feeling. Since it was free there were a lot of people, but that didn't get me down. From Andy Warhol to Van Gogh , they have it. What got me thinking was the works of Andy Warhol had a rope around them where you can't come any closer. On the other hand "Starry Night", by Vincent Van Gogh didn't have that and people can go as close as they want. That was interesting. There is a lot to take in while you are there. It is relaxing and educational at the same time. I will be coming back here again and again...
There was this painting of 3 black males sitting a park bench. Strangely, the one in the middle had a pink pen15.   (curator) An interesting piece, very interesting.  This is a 1981 piece by DeGrasse.  Some intellectuals have argued that this work demonstrates the agony of the homosexual male yearning to come out of the closet.  Others argue that it is about the repression of the African American male. (me- nodding head, seemingly agreeing) (random dude with Scottish accent) - thats not what it really means. (me) oh? do tell... (Scottish dude) He may be the curator, but Im the artist. (me) go on... (Scottish dude) Well, first of all, those are not African Americans, them are coal miners- and second of all, the one in the middle went home for lunch. True Story.  Oh, and its free after 4 on Fridays.
M akes for the best modern art museum anywhere o nly big ding being the regular ticket prices (~$20) M aybe you can visit on Target Free Friday Nights? A ll said, great new venue and a superb collection!
The building itself is beautiful - contemporary, clean, and chic. The art, however, is something I will never in all my life have the ability to understand or appreciate. I saw... a shopping cart with filled trash bags tied onto it; an entire wall covered with boxes of Advil, Motrin, toothpaste, and other pharmaceutical/grocery products; a large rectangular canvas covered with black paint (my personal favorite). I walked around with a serious face (well, as serious as I could keep it) and occasionally nodded my head or murmured "Mmm...interesting...", but I really didn't get it. Sorry...I tried! There are only two reasons why I would recommend spending $20 to visit the MoMA: (1) being able to sound artsy and sophisticated when you tell your friends that you spent the afternoon there, (b) seeing Van Gogh's "Starry Night'. After copying Starry Night countless times in elementary school, I couldn't believe that the original was right in front of my eyes!
Let me tell ya: The collection is off the hook! Amazing! Multiple works by Picasso, Dali, Kandinsky, Keifer, Rivera and so many others. The space was okay.  While it was a beautiful and large space it was laid out all wrong. I like the MOMA in SF and MOCA in LA because you can see everything without having to backtrack into rooms to walk into other dead-end rooms.  Both SF and LA have spaces that flow from one end to the other allowing the visitor to see the entire collection. I missed a whole section of the collection because I took a wrong turn. Collection 5 stars Museum Layout  -2 stars
I remember the days of the old Modern, actually two versions ago, but I stood in line when in reopened "recently" (a few years ago) because it is an icon, and its "my job" as an artist. I have an artist's pass, which I recommend, so I can drop by for an hour or less to see some of my favorites.  It became clear that after the expansion of a few years ago that it still lacked space and I think another expansion is in the works.  I guess that, besides the high price, are my minor gripes but YOU MUST VISIT THIS MUSEUM.
Back when I worked for Corporate America, one of my favorite perks was that my company was a MoMA sponsor, which meant I could get in for free anytime I wanted.  A friend and I used to come for Lunch at Cafe 2 (review to come) just so we could say "We're having lunch at the MoMA."   The more I went and the more I started to explore, the more I realized how lucky we are to have an organization like the MoMA in New York.  It's not quite like any other museum in this city where (happily) museums are a dime a dozen.  Everything about it is subtly impressive: from the design of the building to the exhibitions to the standard collection (I dare you to stand in the Jackson Pollack room and not feel something).  The very first time I went here I stood in front of Picasso's "Mademoiselles D'Avignon" for about a half and hour and thought about how I was actually looking at the painting that started modernism,  and remembering how important art is to history, modernity, and the present. Over my years in New York, I've had various experiences with the MoMA ranging from my lunch escapades, to giving tours to out of town friends, to dating one of the curators, to throwing an event on the obelisk pavilion.  All of my dealings have been wonderful.  As I said, we're lucky to live in a city with the MoMA in it.  Call it reason #4,792 why I love this damned town.
Well colorblock me happy.  I loved this museum (and I am not much a museum person).  It takes a lot out of me to even spend more than one hour in a museum, let alone more than 3 hours in this MOMA mecca.   I loved so many of the displays minus one.  Let's start with my faves - Van Gogh - A Starry Night is here!  My absolute favorite painting.  I didn't even know it was here.  I went all the way to Amsterdam to look for it at the Van Gogh museum and I only had to go here.  Waste of time in Amsterdam looking for it! cuz our tour guide told us it was there..  I digress.  I also love Worhol and Mondrian, not a huge fan of Piccasso, but he's all over MOMA.  Monet's water lillies... lots of other things to see here.  They were building a new exhibit with chairs.  And I love chairs.  Don't know why.  Modern art is awesome! On to my least favorite - the video of the women hula hooping naked with a barbed wire, cuts showing and all... I am still having nightmares.  Sick.  Thanks for telling me about it - you know who you are... If you must know me well, then you'd know that I'm a shopaholic, and the Shopaholics book series was written about me.  In Shopaholic Takes Manhattan, she meant to go to MOMA to see the actual museum, but never made it passed the gift shop.  Now, I know why.  I actually did go through the museum, but then ultimately got stuck in the gift shop on the top level, then went down to the lower level gift shop and literally got sucked into everything they had to offer, including the keyboard calculator, postcards, OXO utensils you can easily buy at Macy's... you name it.  If it weren't for a phone call in the store of people looking for me, I may never have left.  A shopaholic's museum heaven.
The Dali exhibit alone was worth the $20 admission. I was going to dock a star for the shortage of bathrooms. Then I saw that the bathrooms had toilet seat covers; so I gave the star back. YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND!!!!!!!!!!! California girls need toilet seat covers. Dali rules.
Starry Night. If just for this one piece, you need to go. I was lucky enough on my last visit to walk into the the Tim Burton exhibit. Now I am not a huge fan of his and only like a few of his movies (Big Fish, Sleepy Hollow and Mars Attacks), but still wanted to take a few minutes and check this out. I absolutely loved it. The exhibit included writings and art work from his younger years. It captured his development into the accomplished artist/movie director that he is today. The bummer is that this exhibit is no longer there. But there is still plenty to see at this world class museum. It's one of the worlds finest collections. And if you get hungry, there is an awesome cafeteria that serves up some really great meals including beer and wine.
I don't think that there is anything more beautiful than walking around a huge museum filled with visual mastery. Took a trip here today actually with a friend of mine, and was incredibly intrigued by all the wonderful pieces that I witnessed. My favorite of course being the Jackson Pollock (thanks David S. for correcting my spelling on my favorite artist) and the Pablo Picasso. In all honesty, I don't really follow the new exhibits at all. I can't stand the crowds. It was a weekend however, so, that of course is expected. Definitely more crowds are around the digital/technology related exhibits because everyone wants to play with all the neato gadgets and motion sensor controlled pieces. Boring. I prefer standing in front of a Jackson Pollack and staring at it for hours. MoMA, I love thee.
Oh, Museum of Modern Art , I think you are the best place I have ever gone to see art. I am totally enamored and crazy about you !Yes better than the Louvre ,better than my boyfriend's Nagel collection and even better than , hold your breath, wait for it ....the Matisse exhibit in Vegas, Yep, it was that good. I really loved everything from the slick modernized feel , the way- cool pictures you have seen everywhere in life, to the Tupperware cups in the Architectural design area. Who knew Tupperware was in the MOMA? My highlights include: Starry Night by Van Gogh , Christina's World by Wyeth , The Architectural design wing, The Rousseau, watching my daughter become delighted with pictures she has seen in Art Class ( thank you , Ms. Naylor) , the super cool hand dryer in the bathroom and the giant Matisse . Tons of Picasso , Pollack , Miro and Kandinsky..this place rocks.
The collection is great but $20 to get in?  Come on, that is crazy.  Plus, I wasn't a fan of how many people were just standing in front of pieces or art taking photographs of it.  It was crazy.  This one woman was standing insanely close to this Monet that covered a wall and she was taking photograph after photograph of the entire thing.  She was so into taking pictures of the painting that she was making it difficult for others to see it.   Crazed camera toting visitors aside, the museum was great.  The lighting in the building is amazing!  So much natural light!  Very cool building. I was completely excited by the large Mark Chagall painting, I and the Village.  That was my favorite piece.  It was amazing, completely beautiful.  I loved it.  It was funny, standing in front of it you could see Starry Night in the next room but instead of rushing over there like everyone else, I stayed in front of the Chagall for quite a while....just taking in his use of blues and purples.  Amazing........ While we were there they were having this exhibit called 50 years of Helvetica.  We were so curious about what it was and it was indeed strange.  It was real small, it was basically just in one back corner of one room and consisted of mostly signage.  Kind of a let down.  Very odd!  There was a Seurat exhibit starting the week after we were there but we got to see a few of them.  They were having a members only sneak peek but you could still see a few of them just by standing in front of the gallery.   So, totally check out the MOMA but be prepared to pay a lot and watch out for all the camera's!
Could do more than one visit. So much to see. Free Wi Fi - great to walk around read extra using Google Goggles. One of the best experiences I had in a Museum.
I have to be honest I am not a museum or art expert by any means.  I love art and I love certain types of museums, but as we all know love doesn't necessarily equate to knowledge.  However, I am not a retard in this area either.  So there's my disclaimer! This is a gorgeous museum that is laid out beautifully.  The catwalk between the different sides is a great place to see the performance pieces down below (such as hours long staring contests between women in wedding dresses).  Even though this museum is massive, it's easy to navigate without having to use your phone navigator to find your way around the corner.  The dining experiences available really should not be missed, just be careful with the itty bitty bird size servings at The Bar Room at The Modern ( http://www.yelp.com/biz/…).   You could easily make a full day, or not, of all that is here!  There were so many things at MoMA that I wanted to snatch up and take home with me, too.  The exhibits and their counterparts were almost magical in the sense of the multitude of modern mediums that are then and now.  It's kind of an intense feeling of the past, present and future all at once.
I was always baffled by modern art ("I can draw a bunch of circles too!").  However, when huge collections of similar styles are brought together at the MOMA, the clouds are lifted.  For example, what looks like a big white canvas could actually be a series of different shades of white all blending together to the naked eye, or at least until closer inspection.   I was also surprised to see paintings by artists like Van Gogh.  For some reason I never thought these would be considered modern, and it was pretty amazing to be thisclose to some really famous and beautiful works.   With so many different exhibits and styles, anyone can walk away with a new appreciation and better understanding of modern art.
I could spend an eternity on the fifth floor. Between MoMA and The Metropolitan Museum of Art, I was in heaven. I only had a few hours to spend in the museum so unfortunately I gave the other exhibitions short shrift this time around. The layout is spacious with eleven intersecting galleries on the fifth floor alone.  It was nice to see pieces by Frida Kahlo along side the boys club.  Works from the span of Picasso's career and not just one or two pieces that you will find at lesser museums. And all that pop art from Warhol. Hello, Marilyn! After spending some time in the sculpture garden, which is a pleasant oasis, we were running late for a family function. I still returned to the fifth floor because I didn't want to leave. I decided it was an appropriate time to be fashionably late.
5 stars for another fantastic House of Art in this fantastic city. Yay for bringing a Seurat exhibit, and being cool enough to show an in-depth on his studies and early works (pre-pointilism). Don't miss the garden.
This is a really, really great, huge museum with lots of ... Modern Art, duh.  The presentation and organization of the exhibits are top notch (It's art and it's in NYC what else would you expect?) ... The permanent collection covers most major art movement over the last 100 years from Abstract Expressionism to Minimalism to Pop Art.  It's your basic modern art collection I was a little disappointed that they don't seem to have any contemporary pieces... I was, however, VERY impressed with the Martin Puryear temporary exhibition. But I think it's ending tomorrow, or something. buuuut, $20 to get in? $12 student rate? sheesh.... however  I DID get free admission to PS1 in Long Island City with my paid admission to MoMA
I have to go with NYC if we're talking about favorites, but don't tell SF MoMA. Fantastic new building (they were in a less-than-ideal Queens location for some time, I understand) and they wear it well. Outside art (including an Alexander Calder) is a bonus. Best collection of contemporary art I've seen in years. Visiting exhibits (including the Eliasson show that was at SF MoMA several months back) are tops. They allow photography, which helps keep museum/artist/date overload at bay.
By far, one of my favorite places to get lost. I never got rid of my college ID... so im a student for LIFE! (sometimes) or I go on fridays after 4 when admission is free. My most memorable visit was a few years ago when there was a pixar exhibit. Everything i loved about growing up was beautifully placed on display and brought out the inner kid in me. For other times, i'd simply pick and era and just walk around staring at portraits and sculptures. Each time taking soemthing different away from it, all depending on how im feeling of course. I absolutely love this place. And clearly I dont go nearly as often as i should. Among my faves: Salvador Dali, Frida Kahlo and rene magritte.
What else can one say after 500+ reviews? How about flow.    I really hate walking through the same room 5 times simply because you can't open a set of doors to walk through so it moves from one to the next. Some people like to be sure they see all they can, or at least know where they were.    You make it painful and obnoxious. While the place isn't that big or hard to figure out, you would just simply expect more. Oh, and your collection of surrealism is pathetic.    The Menil has more depth and quantity. Come back when you aren't just marketing your piddly products at every corner.   MoMA, Museum of Marketing Asshats
Five stars for the collection, two for the shitty layout and appalling crowds no matter when or where you go in this ant farm.   Go if you're a patient person.  Don't go in the summer if you can help it.  It's like trying to walk through Times Square.  Hordes of people--and I mean hordes, this is a huge place--stand smack in the middle of anywhere necessary.  Hallways, elevator doorways, escalator entrances, in front of "Starry Night" and on and on, most of them snapping photographs so they can prove they were there.  It's borderline intolerable.  Get off your BlackBerry, stupid idiot.  Look at what's in front of you, and STOP TEXTING your homie, you dumbass. Combining that with the fact that there are a million little dead-end galleries off main gallery arteries that stop your flow and force you to retrace your steps makes for a tiring, frustrating experience.  I love modern art but coming here is rough.  The admission fee is steep, yes, but I have no qualms about paying it, given the amazing trove of treasure lying within the mazelike rabbit warren they call a museum.   Seriously, TAKE a valium before coming.  It will make all the difference and allow you to laugh. As for the art, well, what can I say?  It's stellar.  Celestial, even.  Do I really need to tell you what's there?  It's a college dorm room's greatest hits collection.  Monet's "Water Lilies"?  Yes.  Rousseau's "Sleeping Gypsy"?  Uh huh.  Van Gogh's "Starry Night"?  Yeah, it's here.  Picasso's women, Matisse's goldfish, Cezanne, Kandinsky, Klee, Miro, Gaugin, etc; PLUS more contemporary artists like Rauchenberg, Stella and Warhol .  You'll enjoy it all if you can see it.
Even if you've been to MoMA a dozen times before, it's definitely worth a trip back for the Tim Burton exhibit.  Personal notes between Tim and actors about character direction (my favorite was a note to Johnny Depp suggesting the cannibal line for Willie Wonka), sketches, projects that never took off ("Little Dead Riding Hood") short stories and poems scrawled on scraps of paper and even creative writing homework assignments from grade school.  Yes, he's always been this dark. My friend went last week and walked through the entire exhibit with The Edge, his son and their bodyguard standing next to them without anyone even noticing them.  That's how good the exhibit is!
In the words of Justice Stewart, "I know it when I see it."  While it may be hard for me to pinpoint my "taste" in art, I know what I like, and what I like usually resides here. A huge, cavernous, interesting space, the MoMA hosts a fabulous selection of art that spans the spectrum of Cezanne to Jasper Johns to Warhol to the light installations of Dan Flavin. Although there is the rare occasion that I run across pieces that I consider...well...insipid (Monet and a Georgia O'Keefe come to mind -- no offense to those fans of theirs out there), to be honest, 99% of the collection is at the very least INTERESTING, even if you don't "get" it.  My personal favorites include the Brancusi sculptures on Floor 4 and the incredible Demakersvan/Jeroen Johan Verhoeven wooden "Cinderella Table," which has exquisite fluid lines that are beautiful, simple, and just make me happy. If you have a chance, be sure to check out their Projects 85: Dan Perjovschi on Floor 2 at the "Current Exhibitions" area. (It'll be there until August 27.) The commentary on the state of the US and its political shenanigans was clever and very telling.  Done entirely in what could easily pass for cocktail napkin drawings x 100, the scattering of drawings covers the entire floor 2-6 wall. My favorite: "The Perfect Flight Passenger," which depicted a naked man carrying a Ziploc baggie. Awesome. Like I said, I don't know what I like exactly, but "I know it when I see it." And I know that, what I see here, I like. Yippee.
I was a member of MOMA for many years, but it has been too popular for its own good for such a long time.  The Times Square-like daily crowds here in MOMA's difficult interior layout bang about like particles in a nuclear collider.  The art on the walls is legendary but the ability to experience and appreciate it is often a losing proposition.  If you find a work that gets your attention -- and you surely will -- be prepared to stake your ground and defend it rigorously with all the New York attitude you can muster. The gallery displaying works by sculptor Constantin Brancusi is my mecca at MOMA.  If there were a bench in front of these pieces, I'd gladly camp out for hours gazing at these timeless sculptures.  For me, there is nothing better here and I'll willingly suffer the bruises from the crowds to gain access to it all.
My $0.02 wont matter. Not with 680 reviews already in the ether. So I'll keep it brief. Keep up the great work of displaying and housing great works of art. Minus one star for not having an "if you haven't been to a museum or gallery before" primer for patrons who repeatedly and unapologetically jump in front of other patrons thereby blocking their sightline. But I do like the MoMA. And will return.
Confession: before I came to MOMA, I thought modern art was no-talent crap. ....And honestly, with a few artists, I still need a little more convincing. But dang, seeing a lot of the work in person makes a huge difference. MOMA admission is a bit expensive (unless you're a Columbia student), but it's definitely worth it. Four stories of different installations, movies, paintings, and sculptures from a lot of the well-knowns (i.e., Van Gogh, Picasso, Kahlo, Warhol), as well as more contemporary artists. But this place has a special place in my heart mainly because it holds Monet's Water Lilies. Ah, they even have seats placed in front of them so you can just sit. and. stare.
Normally, I would think to review such a well-renowned establishment that is MoMA, since it is a New York must-see for anyone, whether you like modern and contemporary art or not. Even if you have been to MoMA, the museum has a little secret that may entice to go back again, and again, and again.... Two words: Pop Rally. A couple times a month, the museum hosts events at The Museum of Modern Art and P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center that "features collaborations with artists and musical acts, performances, film screenings, receptions, and special viewings of exhibitions at moderate prices." What does this mean? PARTIES. Great parties, in fact, that has had past events such as a performance by wispy-voiced pop star Cat Power for Doug Aitken's "Sleepwalkers" video projection on the museum's exterior, a fiery performance and poetry reading by Patti Smith to celebrate the birthday of Georges Seurat, an explosion of pop culture, neon and turntables with Paper Rad and Cory Archangel, and a hyper-colorful DFA Dance Party for the "Color Chart: Reinventing Color, 1950 to Today" exhibit. Not to mention that at most of the PopRally events have an OPEN BAR with themed cocktails to really enhance the...uh... appreciation of the event goers. Ticket tend to only be $10, for which you get an evening of culture and tipsy-ness. Do yourself a favor, and subscribe to their newsletter for updates on the next event at http://moma.org/calendar…. You will be thanking me monthly for this info, I promise.  Hey, that is what I am here for.
Certainly one of the great Museums. The Tim Burton exhibit just so happened to coordinate with my virgin trip to the Big Apple.  We got our tickets for the 3pm entry.  After four hours of stairing,  comparing and questioning we were burnt out.  Complete information overload.   We  sat down for fifteen minutes,  planned an early dinner,  then decided who cares lets split,  it is just Tim Burton?  Well,  we decided to just take a quick gander.  The room was crowded,  crowded with sketches,  film strips,  and physical creations either made or inspired by Burton. A prolific MOFO if there ever was. The room was also crowded with the kind of people you don't like to be around in an art museum,  punk ass kids cutting in front of you while chewing gum.  Silly Trixies saying cool and awesome over and over. Even with these challenges the exhibit was amazing,  a true talent with a true,  albeit demented vision. We spent about an hour per floor,  and maybe we should have spent some more time.  When surrounded by genius,  it can be exhausting.
I consider myself to be a fairly cultured person.  I can speak multiple languages, play several musical instruments, am reasonably well-traveled, read thick books without pictures, etc.  So, with that established, let me just say that I have tried - TRIED - to develop an appreciation for modern art and...I just can't.  I'm sorry.  I visited MoMA knowing this about myself, but also being open to (and excited by) the possibility of having my mindset changed.  It wasn't. Now, to be fair, we didn't have enough time to visit the top floors, which I've been told is where the good stuff is.  That's why I'm giving MoMA 3 stars.  I'd even come back, and this time start at the top.  On this recent visit, I think I made it to about Floor 3 or so.  I really just gave up after seeing an installation piece of a vintage projector showing a black and white film featuring snow falling on a typewriter.  Ouch.
I'm a sucker for Contemporary art and awesome films by dark directors.. 4 words: Tim Burton, Gabriel Orozco.. Both had feature exhibits at the MoMa that opened recently and both did not disappoint one bit.. It difficult to describe, you just gotta go (be sure to dig up that student ID for a cheaper entry price).. I enjoyed this more than The Met or The Natural History.. Although I appreciate Classical art and information, I just can't connect with it on the same level like I do with Contemporary work.. If you're like me, then this place should not disappoint..
(NOTE: mark your calendars for the Serra exhibit that will be opening in June. There are some incredible pieces in the garden and the full exhibit is going to be amaaaaazing. His pieces change the room or space or city that they exist in. They move the air around them with their stillness. That might make more sense once you've walked through one. Either way, they are v. cool and worth another visit alone.) {A note on this note: the sculptures in the garden blow the rest of his exhibit away. Oh well. I still love 'em.} Sigh... I am having a love affair with this museum. Here's the best tip I can give a New Yorker: Buy a membership to MOMA. Admission is $20, Membership is $75. With your basic membership you get a whole bunch of stuff including: free admission for yourself for a year, $5 tix for up to FIVE GUESTS A DAY - every day, 10% off at the store, specials at the store on special days, invites to random events, etc. You make your money back lickety-split! The best part is that the sculpture garden can now be your own personal reading nook. How cool is that!?! The building is (insert sound of gospel choir here) "JOYFUL, JOYFUL!!" to walk through. Go up to the floor to ceiling windows in the corners and look down and out. Take a moment to check out how the shapes of the building frame the rest of the world behind it. Masters? Check. Brand-spanking new art? Check. Multi-media? Check. Me, all the time, whenever I need a fix of inspiration and relaxation? Check. My favorite thing to do is hit the bottom floors, then the Bar Room at The Modern (in the museum, on the first floor) for a fancy-spoil-me-happy-day lunch, then head up to the top two floors with a full stomach and rested feet. Sigh... did I mention the love affair I'm having with this museum?
Yea, the MoMA, its ok.   There seems to be no real flow to the photo exhibit, its just kinda all over the place, and honestly, most of the photos really were not that impressive! Free Fridays are cool, but expect mad heads roaming about.  If you can avoid the bag check, youre definitely a step ahead.  If ya gotta check a bag, make sure ya get back to claim it before 745 or the line will be quite loooooong. Ill go back onna Friday, but im not sure theres enough worth paying to see though.  3, 3 1/2 stars.
Love their special exhibits. The rest of Moma's permanent collection is great too. It's free for NYU/CUNY students and I believe SVA as well. Just show your ID at the membership desk for a ticket. I try to avoid Friday nights because that's when it's free for everyone else too. I don't like feeling like a sardine.
I LOVE LOVE LOVE MUSEUMS.....and the MOMA is no exception.  While I'm not going to compare this museum to another, I will have to say the collections here are quite amazing!   I was around for the Comic Abstraction exhibit which was very well curated. Yes, of course we expect to see a Murakami or two (and no, not only on the LV bags) but there was so much more!  One piece in particular was the installation that was inspired by the Powder Puff Girls...brilliant! Anyhoo...The library inside is also an amazing resource for all kinds of material.  I think I spent almost as much time in the library that I did in the galleries.  It's a great way to spend a day!  Also, I know it may not look fabulous to carry the audio guide.  But, listen to me....do it!  The stuff you can learn with that simple stick makes it worth it! As for the layout....you either get it or you don't.  In a way, perhaps that is like modern art itself (hehe...kidding).  But, yeah, if you don't have a day to wonder, I can see how the layout could be extremely frustrating.
If you love films, you should run right out and get an annual membership for MOMA. They show at least two movies every day, so this is by far the best movie bargain of all the different movie annual memberships you could buy (Film Forum, Anthology Film Archive, etc.). I think it's $75.00/year for a single membership and $120.00 for a dual one. There are two movie theaters in the museum, and they show an incredible range of films from Hollywood classics, to foreign films from all countries, to small indie films, to documentaries. The people who tend to go to movies here are usually either senior citizens enjoying the great bargain it is, or film fanatics who are extremely sensitive to NOISE -- so you'll hear some major shushing here, when the movie starts. Often, the films are introduced by film scholars or historians.
First of all, let's just clarify that it's: "MoMA," and not "the MoMA"...don't know why, but that irks me beyond belief.   Secondly, there is a great deal of art in MoMA and if you can't recognize that you're either dead inside or a communist.   Lastly, going to MoMA an experience that should not be missed.  During the warm months of the year, going to the sculpture garden and simply wandering in circles can actually be quite relaxing.   If you don't mind the crowds, I highly recommend going on Friday nights from 4-to-8, p.m. Otherwise, suck it up and spend the $20 bucks.  So you have a couple less beers at the bar that night...your eyes, brain and liver will ALL thank you.
New York City always cheers me up. But whenever I got too high, I went to MoMA. It's my sacre coeur to calm down. I like the walking meditation among strangers, using my eyes as sensors to connect each art piece and my heart. When doing this practice at MoMA, I can always think something or think nothing. I like going there in the summer on Thursday evening, sitting in the garden with good friends, with a drink or not. Breeze whispers in my ears and friends listen to me with smile. I also liking going to the MoMA cafe 2 in the winter after my walking meditation, sitting behind the window, with a good book, or not. I know it's not a quiet cafe, and the parking lot on 53rd street is not a nice view. But when my coffee and the three naughty chocolate cookies jump on the table and my book opens, the whole world around will be instantly fading away. MoMA = Peace
Of the great New York City museums, I've been to the Met once and MoMA a few times.  I worked near MoMA last summer and used a corporate membership card for free entry, and I think this museum is worth multiple visits. My first visit actually didn't involve too much art viewing.  It was for a MoMA night on a summer Thursday.  There was a bar and a band and plenty of seating outside to take in the beautiful scenery.  Greg T. and I browsed the design and photography sections of the museum for a scant hour before closing. I like that MoMA offers these sorts of social events, and they're perfectly suited to summer. On a later visit to MoMA, I was taken on a guided tour of the collection, and it was educational and very impressive.  We progressed through different movements in modern art, and our guide brought our attention to rest on various key pieces.  The collection is really magnificent, with notable pieces by big names like Picasso, Matisse, Pollock, Warhol, and Duchamp, and every room has something that'll catch a passing eye.  The museum is also easy to navigate on your own. The special exhibits tend to be great, too, and repeat visits to see them are worthwhile.  I enjoyed a huge installation piece by a Chinese artist named Song Dong called "Waste Not."  This was a collection of the complete contents of the artist's mother's home, necessaries and knick knacks representing fifty years of life in Beijing.  I was sad to miss the Tim Burton exhibit that ended this April. In any case, I'll probably find my way back to this stellar museum, even though I don't live in the city.  I guess now that I don't have a membership, I'll shoot for a free Friday night for my next visit.  The museum is worth the ticket price, though, especially if you're a first-time visitor.  I would also recommend a meal at the Bar Room at the Modern, as long as you're in the area.
The MoMA is quintissential New York.  Once can't help but feel as though you really are in one of the greatest cities of the world as you walk through galleries and galleries of Pollack, Kandinsky, Picasso, Matisse, Warhol, and Lichenstein. Most recently, I came to the MoMA to see the special Matisse exhibition.  There were lots of rarities, including sketches for what would eventually become his paintings and sculptures.  There's a lot more to Matisse than that one red painting everyone associates him with (which is on one of the contemporary art levels of the MoMA, by the way). Even on a rainy Monday, the museum was absolutely PACKED.  Mainly with tourists, some of which will invade your personal space, step in the way of your photos, or hip check you as though you were invisible and leave you bruised the next morning (true story). If you're a student, don't forget your ID card to get discounted admission!
I have a love hate relationship with MOMA.  I love the museum.  Even the building's structure and floor plan is a work of modern art.  There is so much to see and do.  You could easily lose yourself, your friends (if your lucky), and time just aimlessly wandering around the place. It houses some of the most important Modern Arts around within it's walls. Anyone interested in seeing Pablo Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon?  Yes? Thought so. There is a little of everything for everybody here.  Paintings? Yep.  Photography? Check. Architecture and design?  Got it.  Film?  Of cause.  Sculptures?  It's here.  Don't care about art but want good food?  Hell, they seem to have found a way to fit in a cafe or restaurant on practically every floor. So where does my hate in this relationship comes from?  As much as I love most of collection and admire the diversity of what they have and the great temporary shows, I hate some of what they call artwork here sometimes.   Last week I was staring at a few white walls with what seems to be the clear circular lid of what I believe to be a Danon Yogurt cover imprinted with a expiration date.  That was the artwork.  A whole room full of 1 little lid stuck on each wall.  Ok, so one of them was a little different.  They actually stuck a price sticker on one.  Whoopee.  Sigh.. and I thought I was cultured enough to handle anything they throw at me.  Apparently not. On Fridays, the Museum is free to everyone.  It's also a madhouse during those days.  If large crowds in small spaces is not your thing, then avoid coming that day.   Sometimes art is better admired in a serene setting and for that it might be worth the admission price for some people.
What can I say? The NY MoMA was just about the right size with a fantastic collection of modern art, photographs, art installations, architectureuial pieces and eclectic expressions of our modern society. A must-visit for the curious, artsy and downright quirky.
Van Gogh, Dali, Warhol, Picasso, Pollock, Wyeth, Kandinsky, Matisse, Monet, Chagall, Hopper, O'Keefe, Cezanne, Klimt, Rothko, Rauschenberg, Kahlo, oh my! The MoMA is home the greatest collection of modern art masterpieces that will thrill the seasoned artist and captivate the novice. Don't miss the sculpture garden, it's stunning in the summer.
While in NYC I honestly had no intention of visiting a museum, however, I was scolded for not having it in the plan, and given that MOMA was less than one block from the Hilton, I couldn't NOT go.  So that I could split my visits over two days I became a member (out of towner for $60) and went Saturday for the permanent collection, and got in for the early viewing of the Matisse exhibit on Sunday at 9:30 am, along with 20% off at their stores (went to two of them).  Good deal. I saw incredible art: Frida Kahlo Picasso Monet Matisse Kandinsky Unfortunately, there wasn't time to see the "Photography of Women" exhibit. If I travel back east this fall I will book in time in NYC and use my membership a bit more. Easy access Speedy membership services Comfortable temperature It's good to have a friend who nags.
One of the top Modern Art Museums in the world.  If you are in NYC and love art it would be a mistake not to go. I know a little secret too, they have an artist pass that is only $50 a year.  If you are an artist of any kind and have a business card or a SAG card, then you are set.  It's a great place to be able to visit at your leisure.
This museum has everything! Its permanent collection is amazing and very well flushed out. The special exhibitions never disappoint. The Italian style cafe inside the museum is excellent as well.
Definitely drop into here if you have an afternoon off. There are numerous exhibits in multiple floors. I wish I had time to go through more than two floors but was short on time. The art displayed varies from your standard canvas on the wall to furniture to the history of images. If you don't care for one art style, there's many more that can cater to your taste. New exhibits are added often so you don't have to worry about seeing the same things over and over again. I'm going back the next visit here.
So they have a huge plaster cast of a penis hung by a hook as a tribute by the artist to all the things she loves...and as I'm walking by I notice a little cute family of 3...mom and 2 preschoolers all having a lovely day surrounded by thoughts to canvas and other materials... mom:"..and this one looks like a penis to me..." ...a few moments of silence pass as she walks up to the little card describing the piece and artist.... mom:" yes, it is a penis..I was correct! " ;-) 6 floors of some awesome priceless ideas as well as some worthless garbage.(string tacked to a wall or an empty box with a artist name on a piece of paper next to it is not art...maybe getting you to pay $20 to look at it is;p) is it worth the minimal $20...it could be. great people watching. sometimes just sitting down and watching the people react to certain pieces is worth the effort and afternoon. great way to press reset in your mind. on a beautiful summer day, the outdoor sculpture garden is more awesome a place to closely listen to the voices you've been neglecting for so long. if you haven't and are in the area or country...just do it.
A box containing a Hewlett-Packard Printer is sprawled on the floor. It's opened and contains parts of a relatively modern printer. Am I at Interop, the successor to PC Expo? Am I in my office looking at a stash of IT parts? No, I'm at the Museum of Modern Art, an institution that can inspire feelings of awe, revulsion, captivation and confusion in a single breath. $20 is the standard rate unless you go on Target Fridays. Doors are open until 8:45pm on first Thursday of the month. I happened to go this past Thursday for free as my company participated in International Corporate Philanthropy Day. At MoMA, you'll find six floors of painting, sculpture, drawings, photography, design, prints, media , books and special exhibitions. The least challenging floor, the floor where paintings actually contain recognizable shapes and not just abstract splashes of inner turmoil is Floor 5. Van Gogh's Starry Night and Warhol's Campbell Soup Cans had the largest crowds of admirers. I enjoyed Dali's Persistence of Memory and was surprised by the relatively small size of this painting. For other surreal experiences, MoMA has works by Magritte, Ernst, Breton and Tanguy. The museum is easy to navigate and can be solidly digested in about 2-3 hours depending on one's interest in the exhibits. Add at least 45 minutes if you'd like to watch a Warhol video where nothing much happens. (And I fully support videos where nothing much happens. It's a refreshing change from the CGI excesses of the Star Wars prequels, for example.) One work that just called for audience interactivity was Paul Sharits' "Ray Gun Virus". Dating from 1966, it's a "flicker" film of changing colors, loud sounds, looping and repetition. But if you stand in front of the projector you suddenly have imagery reminiscent of the original Ipod commercials, where a black shadowy figure is on a colorful red or green background. We spent at least 15 minutes in this room interacting with the exhibit. If that was Sharits' original intent remains unknown but it was the most fun we had with an exhibit at MoMA.
This is my all-time favorite art museum! Who could tire of seeing Monet's "Waterlilies" or Dali's "The Persistence of Memory" or Van Gogh's "Starry Night" or Picasso's "Three Musicians"? The MoMA has a stunning collection that keeps me going back. The sculpture garden is a lovely place to sit and relax during the nicer weather. The new renovations really make the crowd "flow" from one space to another easily. The only downside is the $20 admissions fee. I think that's a LOT to ask.
I understand that requiring a purchase of a $20 ticket kind of sucks, but I have to say, the staff at MoMA were incredibly helpful, and instructed me how I could get my whole family into this place for the absolute lowest cost. The best part is that I wound up with a season pass out of the deal (you get free tickets for others with it). If you live in the area, or are just in NYC a lot, I would highly recommend exploring your options--having a season pass to the MoMA rocks the house. This museum is fantastic, breath-taking, unnerving, beautiful, and just about every human emotion rolled into one. I really love Mark Rothko, and there are just no words for how incredible it is to be able to see his paintings up close and person; the sheer size of some of the pieces made me feel like I was being consumed by it. There is a wealth of artwork here that left me utterly speechless; go as early as you can, and stay until they kick you out. It's impossible to take it all in if you're in a rush. You'll have to battle a crowd to get a look at Starry Night (and it's guarded at all times, which is uncomfortable), but it is worth it. The piece is stunning. MoMA has Monet's Reflections of Clouds on a Water Lilly Pond that, quite literally, takes up a whole room, and will leave you speechless. If you've never seen some of the more famous work in person, the experience is intense and should the opportunity should not be missed. They have an extensive, brilliant collection of Picasso's work, though the room that houses his famous Les Demoisells d'Avignon also exhibits Francis Bacon's work, which stole the show for me. Every time I go, I find a new artist to respect, admire, and obsess over. It's wonderful. I can't say enough about this museum. I just love it so much. You must visit the rotating Contemporary art section before you leave! It ranges from the ridiculous (a video of a woman performing oral sex on a bottle of milk, and then spitting it all over), to the awesome (a feminist show, consisting of powerful, arresting, floor-to-ceiling illustrations and writing). Either way, you're guaranteed to see something that will make for a great conversation piece. This is a one of my favorite places in the world. It's special, one of a kind, and should be savored and enjoyed...with frequency, if possible.
If you like modern art, I dare to say this is one of the best modern art museums in the whole wide world!  (I've been to quite a lot and the only one better is the Tate Modern in London.) I love that it's located so close to all the great NYC shopping because when my bratty friend refuses to go to a museum I can dump her at the stores and meet up with her after a coupla hours laughing behind her back that she missed such greatness! One of my favorite exhibits was on the anniversary of the Helvetica font.  Another I love has all kinds of mid-century chairs.  I can always count on the gift shop for some really unique finds.
Wow, MoMA had 666 reviews before I wrote this review.  Hope I'm not ruining something here by writing the 667th. Anyway, I love MoMA, especially the design exhibit where you get to see ordinary, everyday items as art.  The sculpture garden is especially nice. There was an interesting exhibit this last visit where they let you take candy wrapped in red, white, and silver foil from a pile in the corner of the museum.  The reactions from patrons were priceless.  "GASP! Don't touch the art!  Oh wait, we can? Really?  REALLY?" But this place is always so crowded and overwhelming.  So much stuff, and sometimes the art is crammed into gallery entryways causing bottlenecks. It's hard to give it 5 stars.  But is is definitely a must visit when in NYC.
A place where it's own design strives to reach the quality of the work it houses is a place for me. It's elegance, choice of furniture, and 15-minutes of fun searching for the food court, as well as exceptional ease at getting lost should all be MoMA's registered trademarks - well, at least those are the first things I remember in retrospect. If I remember correctly, the levels of fun top off at 5. For weary travelers, who have just left level 3, huge leather benches (although I wouldn't consider them benches) can be found on either 2 or 4. Careful, their comfort offered is found to be sleep inducing. One floor was my favorite - I forget which, but it had a room - consisting of several rooms actually, which had a giant maze-like curved structure (whose sister can be found in the outside courtyard). I had a good amount of fun catching friends here. The courtyard, which also proudly carries it's own outdoor art, has a very calming pond partnered with a small bridge-like platform that can be walked across. I found myself asleep on one of the chairs here, while, at the same time, my buddy ventured into her nap on the 4Th floor I just talked about. The walkways on the first few floors are criss-crossed as well as reached by stairs, which parallels the flair of "modern." Throwing away that age old ritual of art-must-be-enjoyed-in-silence, this place welcomes open communication. In response, I picked up a stack of pamphlets and proceeded to shout "Papers! Papers! Get your papers here!" My favorite memory of this place: some people actually thought I was the paper guy.
Sensory overload. My first time at MoMA left me wondering, "How is it possible for people to live in this city, have this much beauty around them, and not just cry from the sheer gorgeousness of it? How does anyone go about their day when this place is here, commanding your attention?" Subsequent visits have been equally powerful. Rooms dedicated to Picasso, Pollock and Kandinsky are just the tip of the iceberg. It's impossible to appreciate everything on one trip; around the time you finish your circuit of the fifth floor, you'll start to realize that you can't possibly look at and appreciate every piece. It's exhausting, in the best possible way. Other favorite pieces of mine include a late-period Monet in which the artist's failing eyesight is poignantly visible; a luminous commissioned portrait and a haunting self-portrait by Oskar Kokoschka; and several preposterous, hilarious and ingenious sculptures by Marcel Duchamp. I don't get some of the negative comments. "Only a few Picassos"? There must be at least twenty. As for the admission fee, isn't it worth $20 for the privilege of seeing Starry Night alone?
I went to art school so of course I have visited MOMA on numerous occasions.   Uptight/ non arty people may want to stick to The Met.  I just say this because I remember my mom being freaked out by some of the art on display ;) Great photography room. It's really cool to see Cindy Sherman's photographs up close. By a narrow margin I  prefer the Met over MOMA.
while the ticket price may be high if you aren't a member, this museum serves as a fantastic complement to the Metropolitan Museum of Art's more historically significant collection offering a look into the more abstract world of painting within the last 100 years. While its true a lot of the work in here could easily be passed off as pretentious art non-sense the collection has enough famous works sprinkled in to make it worth a trip even if you know next to nothing about the art world. You can expect a lot of Picasso, that famous Salvador Dali melting clocks painting and a fairly extensive collection of pop art. MoMA even has a lot of contemporary weirdness from the past few years but not nearly as much as their sister museum P.S.1 (you get free admission to this place with your ticket to MoMA). Apart from their large collection, MoMA has fantastic tastes in events and film screenings. The Pixar exhibit they had a few years ago was nothing short of phenomenal, especially as a Pixar fanboy. They also screen a lot of things that I absolutely love, one summer they showed Pink Flamingos at least once a week, among other things. This fall they have an exhibit showcasing the art of film director Tim Burton and if their past events are any indication, I'm as excited for this as possible. If you are a student make sure to bring your ID for a discount, Pratt students even get in for free, if not make sure to come on Friday between 4 and 8 pm for free admission.
It is a sad testament to overcrowding that a gallery such as MoMA can be quite so unenjoyable. We went at 10.30 on a Friday morning in a off peak time of year.  We hoped, we paid (as it is free post 4pm on a Friday) that you would be able to peruse the art at a leisurely and enjoyable pace.  Unfortunately, the place is bit like an unkempt motorway.  Large tracts of groups funnelling through and stopping to refuel at art, the galleries being so unsupervised that people were actually touching art and it seemed to be a local speciality to take flash pictures of yourself in front of pieces (why oh why do people feel the need to take bad flash pictures of modern art when perfectly shot pictures are in the giftshops and you therefore don't need to damage the paintings by exposing them to repeated camera flashes). It is a real shame MoMA goes down the path of unlimited entry in an effort to (i) get more money, or, (ii) open art to the masses (I would guess they are more focused with option (i) than (ii)).  This is especially so as their rapacious money making efforts have enabled them to buy an outstanding baseball set of modern art.  Some rooms you enter are hung top to toe with piece after piece, crowded in with little care apart from a form of art postage stamp consumerism.  As you eye drifts between the 40 to 50 pieces stuck in grid formation to the wall you can just go tick, tick, tick, that's famous. Where they do put an effort into curating art, rather than just splurging it on the walls, the results can be great.  The Tangled Alphabets: León Ferrari and Mira Schendel exhibition is brilliant but, once again, undone by the masses.
MoMA is a perfectly palatable museum. In fact, it's a great museum if you are a teenager or someone who knows next to nothing about modern art -- the main gallery on the upper floors does a very good "Modern Art 101", but better than any Modern Art 101 course you could take, because you're not reading about the art in a book, or looking at pictures or slides of the art.  You're right there, live, in person, seeing the cultural, aesthetic, and intellectual history of the 20th century.   Additionally, the contemporary galleries are a very good primer on what's up in the world of contemporary art (or what has been up over the last decade or so).  The galleries on photography, drawing, prints, and artists' books give a good intro to modern/contemporary work in those media, as well. One of the things that makes this a good museum for tourists and people who don't know a hell of a lot about art is that it's pretty easy to see in a day, or definitely to see the highlights.  You can take in whatever temporary exhibit is on, they key Fine Art galleries, and at least one other section with no problem, and maybe even take in a film (tickets are free with admission, check out the schedule when you arrive to see if anything interesting is on). Just avoid the Design Gallery like the plague.  Don't get me wrong, here.  I am a graphic designer.  I definitely think design has a place in the world of art, and I certainly think that design and art have interacted to an infinite degree within modernism, and that neither field would be what it is now without input from the other.   But MoMA's design gallery isn't really about that.  It's really just a paean to STUFF.  It's like a high-falutin' and holier-than-thou shopping mall.  This is especially true since the MoMA Design Store tries to stock as many items seen in the Design Wing as possible, and many of the other items are commercially available elsewhere.   I think it's especially telling that most of the American tourists who go to MoMA head straight for the Design Wing, and talk only about that gallery after leaving the museum.  "They had an iPod!  And a Ferrari!  And a KitchenAid Mixer!"  I especially hate the way that this gallery seems to be curated in order to highlight the sort of STUFF all the middle-American culture hating philistines want, and not aspects of modern design that really reflect design trends of the last century and how western visual and physical space is composed, or of aspects of modern design that interplay with the fine arts.  It's just really neat stuff. Which, sorry, I can see really neat stuff at the Apple Store, or a Mercedes dealership, or DWR.  I don't need to pay $20 to get into a museum. Oh, and one more thing -- why pay $20 to come to this museum if you already know you don't like modern art?  There are scores of other museums in this city, some of which are more "important" in an Arts Institution kind of way, and most of which are cheaper.  Giving MoMA 2 or 3 stars because "sorry, I just don't like modern art" is like giving Nobu 2 stars because "sorry, I just don't like Japanese food."
People working the ticket desk act arrogant like they know something more than you do or are better in one way or another. Sorry but you give tourists tickets, your not better than me or the next guy in line, just a worker. Why 1 star? Its just a horrible place to visit never ever again, screw this contemporary art thing, the exhibits they had going on were......... yeah no way to describe the sheer disappointment in the place. The place is designed to shock and awe you, all it did was bore me. Oh, only reason that I am writing about this place at all, they do have an exhibit on evolution in design in regards to furniture and everyday products, that was nifty, but not enough to have the place gain 2 stars.
Yes, Starry Night is there, and I do like it. BUT.   I am old fashioned.  I like it when the boy brings me flowers instead of writing smiley faces on my facebook wall, calls me instead of poking me on facebook.  I like real ice cream and not that Tasty Delight stuff. You get the point.   Mona Lisa is art.  80% of MOMA is not art. However, somehow I have these artsy friends (whom I love and adore) who wanted to do MOMA.  So, for 20 dollars (12 if you are a student) you get to see some sticks, a cube of hay, a black line on the wall......and Starry night.  Some would probably ask "how is this art" or "why is this here".  I honestly want my 12 dollars back.   Art, to me, is something complicated, complex, something that I may not be able to do.  Art is something to be admired.  A stick on a pedestal is not art.  I am sorry, it ain't, and I dont think I need a art degree to say that.  And how do they pick whose stick gets to be displayed in MOMA?  Maybe, I've picked the wrong profession to be in.  I can totally line up some sticks around. Another exhibit had  ....well....there were these three cheese graders. Like mass produced, Target or Walmart kind. The "artist" didn't do anything to them, they just put them in a row....and somehow thats magically turned it into art....worthy to be displayed at MOMA...yep, I paid to see that. The building is beautiful, and there is potential, the courtyard is nice,  but they really need to put in some "art" in there.  Or just close down a few floors, its quality, not quantity. The security staff will yell and scream at you and touch and grab you and it is extremely crowded. Apparently, it is also free on Friday nights, thanks to Target.   MOMA, if you are reading, Id like my money back.
I wrote a passel of New York reviews right after I got back in February, but I neglected to mention one of the high points of my trip: visiting the New York MOMA.  We picked the best day to hang out in a museum - the two-block walk from the subway station was almost unbearable due to stinging winds that cut right through my clothes.  I had no problem with the prospect of being indoors for the next several hours. The only word to adequately describe my feelings about stumbling upon famous painting after famous painting is *starstruck.*  "There's Three Musicians!"  "Look, it's Starry Night!"  "There's a roomful of Monet!"  It was overwhelming.  My favorite room was the one of Paul Klee.  It was very powerful to see so much of his work in one place.   I'm sorry, SF MOMA, but NY blows you out of the water.
Amazing...just simply amazing. I am in loooove with modern art. I just love how it speaks to me and opens my mind with the intriguing, the beautiful and the shocking. Some of it...I really don't get, like the seemingly random splashes of paint on canvas or the simple straight lines on a solid colored canvas. Hey, you won't get criticism here, but I really don't get it. What I DO get are the pieces that fascinate me like the extensive Picasso collection which explores the many styles of this amazing artist. I can experience a bit of his history through his paintings of his past lovers and scenes from his life. And there's the floor that celebrates brilliant functional design over the years such as innovative gadgets, chairs and other household objects. Some of these objects can even be purchased in the museum store. But none of these made quite the impact that one of the current exhibits had on me by Marina Abramovic. Her medium is her own body and here, she not only uses her body but that of others to convey her art. One of the most disturbing displays in her exhibits was a table that appeared in one of her past shows. On this table sat objects that ranged from harmless objects to knives and a loaded gun. The sign on the table instructed her audience, "You may use anything on this table on my body. I will be responsible for whatever happens in the next six hours." Uhh...wow...speechless. And then there was Marina herself in a large open space, cordoned off by ropes. She sat in front of a table, in the middle of this space, cloaked in a red robe, and just stared out into space. There was a chair across from her, inviting any spectator to become a participant in this exhibit. This participant is welcome to sit there staring at Marina for two minutes, two hours, or even eight hours. It was fascinating to think of the emotions and thoughts that passed through each of their minds, or even the lack thereof as time passed...wouldn't the mind go into a trance? And then, I would see that Marina would start to check out and nod her head only to be brought back by the concerned gaze of the other participant. Interesting, interesting! And of course, there were the other performers...in the nude; or I think I should refer them to REperformers, because they were there re-enacting past performances by Marina herself. You can read about them here in an excellent commentary by an ex-dancer: http://www.moma.org/expl… I was left simply in awe as she challenged me to stretch the limits of my imagination and extend my thought processes past what is normal and comfortable for me. THIS is why I love going to art museums.
Imagine walking into another world transformed with modern day pieces as well as historical collections from some of the world's most famous artists.  It was quite beautiful yesterday during a special event held by UBS, we had the entire place to ourselves.  Drinks were served in various areas of the first and second floor, music played by a DJ using his crafty MAC to get the party jumping and the outside area with it's artwork and ponds makes you feel you have left the city for a moment but the skyscrapers surrounding let you know you're still in the greatest city ever. I really loved the 4th floor with famous paintings from Picasso, Van Gogh, Matisse, Grogrian, etc.  They were amazing to see and so beautiful.  Overall you have six floors to roam around and see everything from paintings, photography, sculptures to the even ecclentic work of Richard Sierra. Perfect night to stroll through MOMA, drink in hand and being one with great artists.
(I am re-posting my review b/c SOMEONE thought that they would be cute by hacking into my account and  delete some of my reviews.. allthingsmustcometoanend.. Yelp HQ retrieved them) June 21, 2008 / 5 Stars I ventured out alone and came here.......... I read about the Starry Night by Van Gogh being shown here hence I made a trip. It's always an amazing thing to stand before the art of someone whom you admire has created. Seeing the layers of paint laying on top of each other is amazing........I could almost invision Van Gogh's strokes as he made this amazing piece. . I can go on for days about Van Gogh. I based my holiday to France on Van Gogh and his life in France. I love him. My very first poster as a child was the Starry Night and seeing the real thing was amazing. I have seen many of his works in museums but this was the best one....
This is the best Modern art museum I've been to in the entire US of A.  I have not been to Art Institute of Chicago, but everything else, pretty much I've been there.  This is the place you take people who say they don't get it.  And if the still don't get it after this, then it is time to put them out to pasture (not really pasture, more like shoot them and dump their bodies in a dark alleyway). Even seasoned art snobs will find some little nuance they just didn't expect.  (Wow, that painting is small!) (ha! ha! they had to tie down the moving sculpture because New York has weather!)
Didn't enjoy this as much as the Met and the Museum of Natural History, but we got in for free so I can't complain.  Gotta love the Target-sponsored free fridays! My favourites were probably the Picassos and the impressionist paintings.  Had to see the Campbell's soup cans, but other than that, not really too much into modern art (since I usually enjoy the history more than the art part). It's worth a visit though, especially if you're getting in for free!
The coolest modern art museum I've ever been to and well worth the price of admission especially if that admission cost is free. Don't get me wrong, I like the MOCA we have back here in LA but the MOMA, in my best Zoolander voice, makes the MOCA look like a center for ants and it is at least three times bigger. When I was here they had the Tim Burton exhibit which was sold out. Even though we missed out on that exhibit, there was more than enough in the museum to illicit a few oohs and ahhs and some head scratching. Which, come to think of it, is a lot like a Tim Burton movie. If you're on a short trip to New York like we were and want to take in some of the better museums in the US then the MOMA has to be at or near the top of your list.
There's a lot of good stuff at the MoMA, but at $20 for admission, you really feel compelled to see everything.  It's hard to plan it out and anticipate which parts will be worthwhile and which ones will be eyerollingly bad.  I only made it through half the museum in a couple of hours, and I felt like I didn't get my money's worth, but in their defense, I'm used to the free museums in DC so my expectations are really high if you're going to make me pay the equivalent of five falafels. If you go, don't miss the sculpture garden!
There are times when I feel blessed (there's no other word for it) to be in a particular city at the right time to catch an exhibition.  When I lived in NY and used to visit SF, I was lucky to catch the Walker Evans  and Wayne Thiebaud exhibitions that I missed while they went through NY.  And now that I live in SF, I feel lucky to have been in NY for the Van Gogh drawings, the Egon Schiele exhibition at Neue Galerie, and most recently the Richard Serra retrospective at the MoMA.   Even seeing one Richard Serra can effect a change in the way one thinks about art.  His walk-through sculptures are so spare, elegant, and colossal.  The first time I walked through one at the DIA Beacon, I felt as though I ended up at the center of a Ancient Greek amphitheatre...at the center of human drama, something primal, primordial and yet beautifully articulated.  The retrospective was an opportunity to walk through many of Serra's sculptures and to see the earlier pieces that led up to his now trademark pieces. Besides the Serra retrospective, not enough can be said about the new MoMA and the outflow of pieces that were previously not exhibited due to lack of space in the old building.  I felt as though I was in the MoMa for the first time and it was very exciting.  MoMa's holdings in Abstract Impressionism is so stunning, and to see more of such pieces is truly wonderful.  Moreover, their exhibition asking What is Painting with pieces from MoMA's collection finally gave me a chance to see a Francis Bacon painting in real life, Bacon's final triptych, as well as another Gerhard Richter painting.  Another noteworthy item is their Agnes Martin (although Beacon has more beautiful Agnes Martin paintings). I love the understated elegance of the new building and that it gives priority to the artwork rather than to the building.  Yet for all its understatement, it is a beautiful design with interlocking spaces, clean lines, and a sense of airiness despite the many people moving through the building.  There's a sense of moving through the building in a way that is different than most major pieces of architecture. The building does not call attention to it's self in a self-aggrandizing manner; instead, one feels one's self moving through the building, the process of seeing the art and looking down the streets through the long windows.  It's a major achivement in architecture and something I want to think about again the next time I walk around the new MoMa...hopefully, not too long in the future.
Tips: Go straight to the 6 floor-- when you first walk in, make a left and another right and the elevators will be right there. I just prefer this method which saves you having to go down 4-5 escalators after you've finished touring the museum. Target Free Fridays: 4-8pm; there's no wait! Even if you arrive at 6 or 7pm. It seems work rush hour does not apply since there's mainly a flood of tourists visiting MOMA. To see: Van Gogh's, Starry Night,  Andy Warhol's famous Chicken Soup cans montage, and Picasso paintings. Plus, I thought the kitchen section was interesting (but, of course, I'm a foodie :)  .... that's on the second floor. The MOMA is for those who appreciate abstract art. I still think it's a good experience despite my preference for real paintings and architectural structures.
I couldn't believe how crowded it was at opening.  What the heck?  It's a MONDAY on a non-holiday weekend.  I tried to circumvent the system and hopped the empty elevators straight to the top.  It was still busy.  I took in a free audio tour, a welcome perk considering the $20 I just paid that appears standard at the places I visited (unlike toilet seat covers, dammit). Too bad the weather was rainy during my visit, or else I would've strolled the incredible sculpture garden.  Had a nice view from inside, but just isn't the same.  Could've spent all day here.
This museum requires at least a whole day to explore. Oh, don't worry you don't need to leave to dine or get some sun.  There are a few places to eat within as well as a remarkable view from the top. Ever want to enter an Egyptian obelisk? You have that opportunity here. Have an urge to explore Greco-Roman art without leaving North America? The chance is here. Want to sit outside on some steps and watch native New Yorkers & tourists alike the showcase awaits. Enter, see the art and understand the people who created it.
MOMA belongs on a list called "Things that make you go HUH???" Even if you're not an artsy person, there are enough exhibits here to catch your attention, from the familiar Warhol and Dali and Picasso, to the more esoteric "destroyed rug on the floor with mirrors" and my absolute favorite "video of a man in a ghillie suite in a cage with a coyote picking at the ghillie suit."  Where do people come up with this shit??? They had one exhibit called (and I'm not making this up)...penis hat.  Really.  This is so New York and only in New York can this play.  At least they didn't have anything like that oxygen thief Andres Serrano.  What a douchenozzle that one is. MOMA's architecture should also be listed as one of the exhibits!  It's a feast for the eyes and the imagination. Be prepared to spend at least 2 hours for a relaxing visit and to enjoy this amazing museum!
I was so jazzed to go there. Many people I know raved about it. All I came away with from this place was one word: Overrated. Quality Modern Art is subjective. In my mind, for the hype this place gets is unwarranted. So sad...
Amazing museum.  I love modern art, so MoMA was a shoe-in.  We spent about 3 hours in here and hardly got through anything.  So give yourself lots of time to view (and sit) and you can spend nearly the whole day here.   I did, however, get in free (long story), so I suppose $20 would have been a bit steep for viewing numerous times.
Im sorry but 20$ to get in is a bit much... ONE the art work does not rotate that much.... Two always always crowded and cant even look at a painting... Three... the only reason i didn't give it one star is because  i knew someone who exhibited there... Four...some of the exhibits are so small its like thats IT?
Amazing exhibits changed regularly. Never boring to go to Dec vs. two weeks ago, many fresh and interesting things to look at. Top notch + beats  out the hometown MOMA in SF. Go on Fridays for free admission courtesy of Tarjet.
Absolutely love the MoMA. Back in my uneducated art days, I'd favor the Met, just because of the sheer size, beauty and collection. However, if you're strapped for time, need to take around some tourists, and can hit only one of the big three, I strongly suggest the MoMA. I'm not taking anything away from the Met, but that place is HUGE. What the MoMA lacks in quantity, it completely makes up for in quality, making it easy to hit up in two hours or less. And while it's similarly sized as the Guggenheim, it's MUCH enjoy and holds significantly more quality pieces (Wright's architectural masterpiece aside). As a primer, here's the paintings you absolutely have to see. After buying your ticket, go to the 5th floor. The first painting most people go to is Starry Night. So here's where I drop that I'm not a huge Van Gogh fan, but this last time I went with the girlfriend, and Starry Night is her favorite painting, and her explanations of how he textured the colors and paints has given me a new found appreciation. Anyway, this is the painting everyone comes to see. My personal favorite sits across Starry Night, and it is Picasso's masterpiece, Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. I remember reading a publication (Time, perhaps?) that called this painting the most important painting of the 20th century, and I can't say I disagree. It really represents the turning point from hundreds of years of art that represents the eye to the past century of art that represents the mind. Further, between the size and the oddity, it's also visually captivating. The entire cubist exhibit is particularly engaging, as you notice Picasso and Braque's progression from (relatively) "normal" art to increasingly cubist. Make sure to walk in order. The rest of the fifth floor features other prominent artists, including a strong showing of Matisse, Cezanne, etc. I believe on the other side of the fifth floor is Dali's The Persistence of Memory. The first time I visited the MoMA, this painting was on loan. This time around, I almost missed it, as I had absolutely no idea how small the thing was. It's almost more visually arresting when you see it parodied on say, The Simpsons. There's a nice collection of Mondrian paintings, a personal favorite of mine. The most famous is Broadway Boogie Woogie. Go down to the 4th floor to check out some of the more modern art. The best one is the Jackson Pollock. It's more visually arresting than the one in the Met, but because of its placement, there's much more foot traffic. Whereas you can be alone with Pollock at the Met, there's always someone else around you at the MoMA. Still, a fantastic painting. The other biggie is Andy Warhol's well-known Campbell's Soup Cans. I'm more partial to his silk screen portraits, but seeing all the cans at once is pretty neat too. I could probably go on and on, but I'll stop there. The contemporary galleries are...interesting. I'm more a fan of art history rather than appreciating art visually, so maybe that's why I pass by this area. They're currently featuring an amazing exhibit where a Chinese artist is displaying everything (and I mean ev-er-y-thing) that existed in his mother's house as art. No joke, this is exactly what Asian households look like. Just as an FYI, the museum is closed Tuesdays and shuts down at 5:30 (a pretty early time) every day except Friday. I believe Friday evenings are currently free admission, which is awesome.
Tim Burton exhibit!  This is not the first time I've visited MoMA, but I was very excited to see the Tim Burton exhibit and to also take my little sister, who was visiting NYC last week, to see the museum.  I had told my sister weeks ago that we would visit MoMA.  Since she graduated from art school, I thought she would be excited for it.  But it seemed she was more excited about eating in NYC than visiting MoMA.  Hahhah!  But since I am the big brother, she has to do what I tell her, so I dragged her to MoMA anyway. We met up with my sister's friend at MoMA.  It turns out she has membership at MoMA and that means guests get in for only $5!  I had no idea membership gives you such a great discount.  I will be buying membership in the very near future. MoMA was crowded as usual, but it didn't take us long to get tickets, because the lines to get guest passes were shorter.  Right at the stairway, they've put a big balloon-like art piece by Tim Burton.  I had my sister take a picture of me standing in front of it doing a V sign.  Hahhah!  Making our way up to the second floor, this time around, the lobby area of the second floor was empty, unlike the last time I was there, when they had set up Projects 90: Song Dong.   My favourite section of the museum is the photography exhibits, so we went through that.  And I can't go to MoMA without seeing Roy Lichtenstein's Drowning Girl and Vincent van Gogh's The Starry Night, which are my favourite pieces of art on display at MoMA, so we visited the area that houses the pop art and art by other contemporary artists like Andy Warhol, as well as the area that houses the art made by impressionist masters like Henri Rousseau. We made our way to the Tim Burton exhibit.  This was very crowded and at times we barely had space to move around.  The exhibit contains a lot of drawings and sketches that Burton made, as well as pieces made by other artists for Burton's movies.  You get a good sense of just how twisted Burton's mind is from seeing some of the stuff there!  What I especially liked seeing were the costumes from some of his past movies like Batman Returns and Edward Scissorhands.  Michelle Pfeiffer's catwoman suit looks a lot smaller in real life! Lastly, we went up to the top floor where they are having an exhibit for Bauhaus.  Bauhaus was a German design school from 1919 to 1939 that was known for its innovative approach to art and design. Projects 90: Song Dong (no longer at MoMA): http://www.moma.org/visi… Tim Burton exhibit:  http://www.moma.org/visi… Bauhaus exhibit:  http://www.moma.org/visi…
I literally had 40 minutes to tour the museum, as my slow moving companion and I left the house late in the day and arrived near closing time (see theme of laziness/tardiness below). But even within 40 minutes I was able to view most of the works and was blown away by the prestigious collection. Being able to experience pieces that I only previewed through books and slides in college was definitely nice. It seems like obtaining a membership is a great investment. Can't remember the exact prices, but I had determined that three trips in a year would make it worthwhile. I shall return and bask in more modern art shortly.
I do believe that the MoMA is by far my favorite over the MET! I think it's just more my style, actually. My husband and I were able to see most, if not all, of this museum, and we loved it! I love Pollock's work, as well as Rothko, and a lot of others that have many works showcased at this great museum. I also really enjoyed the modern design and computer graphic (ish?) section of the museum, which I believe was my husband's favorite. I can't remember exactly what we saw there, but I know we loved it. Definitely visit the MoMA. It's one of the best museums I've ever been to!
Okay, so all I really did this last trip was visit the store. Is that a crime? The store is great -- actually, it's 2 stores, with the design store across the street. Lots of cool stuff, ranging from books to clothes to toys, all of very high quality. And since it was post-Christmas, everything was marked down. Happy holiday! I haven't visited MoMA since it moved to its current location, so I can't really comment on the museum. But I'll see it next time, I swear!
Am I a bad person to not love the MoMA? I hadn't been since the new museum opened up, and although I found the building to be absolutely gorgeous, I didn't like the layout of the galleries and found the organization to be confusing. Yes, the MoMA has great masterworks of the 20th century, especially the first half...iconic works that are unforgettable...but the galleries don't always seem to be presenting them in the best light - for example, too many Brancusis presented in a small space, making it difficult to adequate appreciate any of them. Surprisingly, the best works to observe were the contemporary pieces (Gerhard Richter, for example) which have large gallery spaces or rooms for observation and contemplation. If only space weren't at such a premium in New York.
Little did I know, my trip to the Museum of Modern Art last week turned out to be a decent substitute for CES (the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas). I didn't intend to get an electronics junkie's fix from MOMA, so I was surprised to find two exhibits that conjured up images of CES. The first exhibit celebrated Pixar's 20 years as an animation studio. It was admittedly annoying to dodge the gaggles of 9-year olds. Half of the parents in New York City decided the Pixar exhibit was a good excuse to schlep their families to the museum. Fortunately, 9-year olds are too short to block the view, so the exhibit was still excellent. I left with a better appreciation for how critical are the talented human artists behind the animation. Computers make it all possible, but the creativity and vision still come from people, not from machines. Even more impressive than the Pixar stuff was an installation by Janet Cardiff. I wandered into a room devoid of everything but two benches surrounded by 40 speakers configured in a large oval.  Cardiff recorded a 40-person chorus and replicated the sound by channeling each voice through one of the 40 speakers. It was among the most interesting aural experiences I've ever had. You could walk through the room, stopping in front of an individual speaker, and it was as if you were standing nose-to-nose with one member of the chorus. Or you could just sit on the couch in the middle and take it all in. It is definitely something that needs to be experienced in person, not in print.
In a burst of lack-of-confidence in myself, I removed my previous review which dared to ask why there was no glazing protecting a large Warhol on the second floor, in the room with the oversized desk lamp.  I thought, "who am I to criticize the MoMA?  Surely there is some reason that giant piece of paper is exposed to the public and the elements!  Perhaps it's to show faith in humanity!  Perhaps it's because it's across from a giant window and the glare on the plexiglass would be inhibitive to the peaceful viewing of the artwork!  Perhaps it's because Andy wanted it that way!" But it's been nagging me ever since I was there in October; that huge serigraph exposed to wetness, art terrorism; sneezes and children who like to wipe their boogers on big pieces of artwork---after all, paper is very moco-sensitive. Third through fifth floors were my favorite.  Kahlo's "Pelona" and Dali's "Persistence of Memory" a special treat to see in person; and both of them so small!  And "Water Lilies", so HUGE! 20.00 admission, well worth it; get there as early as possible to have as much private time with the art as you can.  It got packed the day I was there. Still 5 stars.
The new MoMA renovation is a spectacular success.  Unlike SFMoMA, the architectural space does not overpower it's lame collection.  Au contraire!  Yeah! it costs twenty bucks to get in but you can purchase a Nat'/Internat'l membership for a sweet $60 bucks when you reside outside of NYC.   I have just renewed my membership and whenever I am in NYC it's fun to treat and impress my hip and unimpressable New York friends to a ticket.  (It's only $5 bucks for a guest)  Some outstanding shows I have seen this past year are:  Edvard Munch, Dada, Brice Marden and Odilon Redon.   It's a great place to "get lost" in the city.
4 words, I think I'm in love. Okay, okay, fine maybe it was 5 words. Who's counting anyways?! Tim Burton Exhibit was off the hook. P.S. Go to the MoMa or die an unhappy soul. P.P.S.S. Sowwie kids, this review is 3 months overdue! =/
The sculptures garden, independent movies, works of such great artists as Monet, Van Gogh, Matisse, Dali, Picasso - 5 stars!
I'd always like browsing through the Architecture and Design Galleries on the third floor.  There are some pretty cool stuff that would get anyone inspired.  I made the mistake of visiting on a Friday.  It's free admission after 4pm on Fridays sponsored by Target...  BUT the catch is heavy tourist crowds.  OMG, it was unbearable to go at your own pace without having a crowd pushing through with cameras & camcorders. So, great NYC bargain, but it's not pleasant & not comfortable to perusal through.
Going to MOMA on the day that is free (compliments of Target) was one of the highlights of my trip to NY with my wife.  I highly recommend it.  The cost was much better than what we paid to get into the Met, and the artwork was every bit as good if not better.  Plenty of cool originals by Picasso, Dali, Munch and many others to go along with a very interesting photography collection.  If youre into modern art, I highly recommend it.
An Andrew Jackson for some culture?  That seems fair.... MoMA is a must do.  For me I enjoy the beautiful outdoor space featuring a pond.  The juxtaposition of the musuem's modern architecture against the neighboring older building is breathtaking. I had to take a conference call out here and it couldn't have been better.  Kids were at play and the sky (albeit cloudy) was beautiful to look at. The exhibits change so I won't go into great detail but the layout is nice.  Go in the morning to avoid the day crowd and then definitely have lunch at  one of the musuem restaurants (see my review of the bar room).
I finally made it to the MoMA yesterday, and I really wish I hadn't waited this long to check it out. I took advantage of the free Friday night deal, which goes from 4pm to 8pm every week: it was pretty crowded, almost too crowded at times, but it still is a pretty sweet deal considering the rather stiff entrance fee of $18 at other times. Now where do I start about the museum?... Maybe by saying that this probably one of the top five museums I've ever been to, and I've been around a bit. I wasn't too sure what to expect after being somewhat disappointed at SF MoMA, but this is an entirely different league. The permanent collection is mind-blowing: they have more Picasso, Van Gogh, Matisse, Pollock, Cezanne, Braque, etc etc etc than you can imagine. Not only that, but all the famous ones are there. There are so many of them that it's hard not to become a little blase after a while... so I strongly recommend starting by the most interesting floors, which are the 4th and 5th floor in my opinion. The temporary exhibits where also great when I went. The building itself also deserves its share of praise: the museum is beautiful and roomy, and it's a pleasure to walk around the different rooms. I love the balconies on each floor overlooking the atrium, as well as all the large windows on the street and on the sculpture garden. Beautiful! The museum store is also worth stopping by.
I have been to MOMA four or five times now. As everyone has mentioned, this place is one of the best museums in New York and the US. You can easily get lost there for hours looking through the regular and special exhibits. So why four stars? Well I find it hard to believe that such a great museum can do such a poor job of running a special exhibit. Even SAM (Seattle Art Museum) can do this right. MOMA sells timed tickets for the Tim Burton exhibit but weren't even checking the times on the ticket when we went in. In fact, they didn't even check if we had a ticket for the exhibit. And so that meant EVERYONE and their mother was in there. It was hard to get close to anything and the staff was not able to keep control over such a large group of people. It took away from what was truly a monumental exhibit that shed light on a great American filmmaker. I still enjoyed the exhibit but it should have been an amazing experience.
Okay, I went to a few more museums in New York than just the Museum of Sex.  The MoMa was one of them.  On at least one exhibit, I forgot whether or not I was still at the MoS.  Call me a philistine, but I have come to grips with the fact that aside from being able to recognize a van gogh from a pollock, I don't have anywhere near a heart throbbing appreciation for abstract art that some people describe when viewing an exhibit like a wooden plank leaning against a wall.  That was a real one. We visited later in the evening, and so we weren't able to go through most of the floors before they began to usher out the crowds.  Actually, the museum is pretty expansive and you'd probably not get through more than a few floors and wings before you get tired, (or, if you're like me, bored) or the place begins to close.  All the same, I did enjoy the stories and history and explanations behind the exhibits... thank god for audio tours, or I wouldn't know whether I was looking at a real lightswitch on the wall, or the physical representation of our passive effort to avoid our demise.  I made that up.  Do you think I could get an exhibit in the MoMa? Yeah I doubt it.
The Artist Is Present! Oh yeah and Marina Abramovic was there too...  I kid, I kid... In love!  Absolutely swept off my feet!  I will be back again and again, I am thoroughly disappointed in myself for not coming sooner! I decided to become a member, everyone should! The day my friend and I went was nearing the end of the Marina Abramovic "The Artist Is Present" exposition, I will not attempt to interpret or even project my thoughts on this exposition here on Yelp, although privately I would love to have a dialogue!   This Museum is awe inspiring gallery after gallery, for the artist, the student, the grandparents, the dreamer, the doer,  the whole family, any walk of life will find inspiration, peace and happiness in this wonderful institution, easily one of the most important collections in the world! I will keep coming back, I am sure every time I will find something new and find a new twist in the path of life I call the big experience! Living is being, be at the Museum of Modern Art!
Make sure you bring your old college ID so you can get a phat discount on admission--got mine for $12.  Also, look around if you actually know anyone who works for the MoMA, coz most likely they can hook you up with a ticket.  The admission ticket is good for the entire day you're there... or at least based from what I was told...so if you need to go out of the MoMA and want to come back later.... you can do that. Key pieces to check out live:  Van Gogh's Starry Starry Night, Dali's Persistence of Memory, Warhol's soup cans and other pop art, the multitude of Picassos, the DADA exhibit (no photography allowed in here at all), the architecture/design floor, Rosenquist's F-111 piece, the photography floor, etc. If you're an avid art lover, devote an entire day here to adequately drink up all the art, architecture, prints and photos.   Their bathrooms are real interesting, especially the faucets.  There are benches in the bathroom too, so you can sit down and cut your toenails.
I can only justify going to MOMA when I can get in free mostly because I'm a cheap bastard but also because I feel the MET has a better collection.  The MOMA pretty much only has a few Picassos, a large ass Monet, 1 Lichtenstein, and a few other pieces that don't really impress me.  They do have Starry Night which increases their street cred but the complete lack of Lichtenstein (who is my favorite modern artist) pains me.   But friends with corporate memberships make the place worth it. woooooo.
A triumph of a museum. Magnificent in every sense of the word. The last time I was in NY, the newly-renovated MOMA had just opened, and the wait to get in was hours long. I was pleased to have an opportunity to visit again, and just be able to walk in on a Friday afternoon. Some of the most important late 19th/ 20th century paintings are here. Picasso, Kandinsky, Pollack, Warhol, Chagall, Matisse, Gaugain, Leger, Miro...the list goes on. The museum, which in and of itself is a gorgeous piece of modern architecture, is worth seeing alone - I would love to be able to eat lunch in it's expansive outdoor courtyard. A must see in NY!
I came here for the Tim Burton exhibit and it was fantastic.  We purchased the tickets online and there was hardly a wait in April.  The MoMa is huge... you wouldn't get bored with repeat visits.  The giftshop rocks, too.
Living in Manhattan, I know I'll go to MoMA more than three times a year, so it's worth it for me to be a member.  I've made the mistake of going on a Friday afternoon when it's free because it was mobbed and I could hardly see the paintings.  It's so much more civilized at other times. Individual adult membership is $75, with the opportunity to buy a guest pass for $5.  Dual membership (same household) is $120/year.  Students: $50/year.   http://www.moma.org/supp… Their films are free with admission.  When I'm in midtown, I sometimes like to just pop in for an hour to take in their latest exhibit, or just sit in the sculpture garden and read and/or go to the loo.
I came here as a tourist in May.  I envy the people of New York to be sourrounded by such beautiful and wonderful things.  I honestly cried coming in here, because I never thought I would ever enter the MOMA. I bought that visitor pass thing, so it wasn't too bad. 6 Floors of fun! You get your Picasso, Dali, Van Gogh.......and yes the Warhols! The pop art was fabulous, I loved it.  The interior design exhibition was wonderful as well,  so many beautiful things to stare at. BE prepared to spend an entire day here, esp if you're a tourist and want to see everything, it takes a day to get through all the exhibits, cuz they are so breathtaking.   As Tourists, PLEAZE BE READY AT THE COUNTER! NY is very fast paced...and they will skip over you if you are not ready. There was some of the modern art though..that made me go "Ok, who did this artist blow to get this crap in here?" but maybe I "dont' get it" oh well. :D Still fun to see. They had some of R. Crumbs stuff as well, I almost cried seeing it.  I was just happy to see one of my favorite cartoonist there. And there was an exhibit of Morrisey/Smith's covers for their records, that was rad. :D The Exhibits were fantastic. Lots of great things to see. :D YOU MUST GO!!! CHECK IT OUT! New York City..you are beautiful.
Loved it!!! Had a few artists I love: DuChamp and Paul McCarthy!  Love them! Only if my feet didn't hurt.. I woulda been here all day!
If your a cool cat, check MOMA out. There are 6 floors of ART from every dimension and from every Self. Take the time to watch the various visual arts & perforamances as well .. very modern ..very hip. Theres a special something for everyone. Good Tip: Free Admission every Friday between 4PM - 6PM. =)
...simply amazing!!!! you must visit MoMA... whether you are the artsy fartsy or to cool for school, you will appreciate the masterpieces on display here... if not, then you might be a pretentious wanna be young professional that might need to change your priorities of trying to look cool at the latest lounges... ..instead of criticizing, just think... and if it doesnt appeal to you then move on.. simple as that.. ...it gets really crowded on the weekends though...
moma was fun to visit but pretty much left me confused. so many weird exhibits! go on a friday night for free admission from 4-8pm. no need to reserve your tickets in advance; you can just show up and they'll hand you a ticket!
A visit by a friend, who lives in Houston, gave me the perfect opportunity to tour the MoMA for the first time since its complete renovation and grand reopening five years ago, and I don't hesitate to tell you that this is something I should have done years ago. My first target was the James Ensor exhibition, which did not disappoint. I finally had a chance to take in the breadth and depth of the Belgian master's imagination and artistic skill. Anyone who has the chance to visit New York City in the next two and a half months shouldn't miss this. I then made my way through the halls devoted to Impressionism and post-Impressionism, which were equally compelling. The one disappointment, other than the fact that I only had an hour and a half to make my way through six floors of spectacular artwork-I didn't even manage to take in the floor devoted to architecture-was that I wasn't able to see Monet, because the collection is on loan to a museum in Atlanta, Georgia. Of course, any museum devoted exclusively to modern art is going to have some aspects that grate on my personality, e.g. exhibitions extolling the virtues of some forgettable conceptual artist or execrable piece of PoMo drivel passing itself off as "art," or a series examining prefabricated/modular homes. That being said, I still think that this museum is a cultural treasure, which everyone living in New York City should be proud of.
I am glad I went here.  I enjoyed some of the pieces and will return to see more of the museum, but I can't give it a five-star, or even a four-star rating. There is too much crap!  By the end of our visit to MOMA, all of the untitled mono-hued canvases were getting to be hilarious to my friends and our fellow observers. My husband says my criticism not just unsophisticated, but is like insulting another person's religion, but I think that many of the Yelpers who have given MOMA five stars don't want to admit that they can't see the Emperor's new clothes.  The fact remains that dozens of artists think much of the "art" at MOMA - such as framed bubble wrap and white-painted canvases - is a joke. That said, I did enjoy many of the exhibits, especially the motion picture exhibits, and I will return to look at more MOMA exhibits, in hopes of discovering something really great.
MOMA always gets good and substantial exhibits. Although a $20 entry may seem steep you won't think so after your visit. There is so much to see that you will spend at least 2 hours your first time there. The only reason MOMA does not get 5 stars is because of how crowded it is. It almost makes it not enjoyable to see the exhibits. And to the jappy girls who think it's ok to talk on your cell phone at a museum: please leave.
Can't say I really have an eye for art but with age and more trips to art museums, galleries, shows, I've become more and more attracted to modern art. MoMA helped solidify my growing attraction and ranks as my 2nd favorite museum (1st place goes to the Dali Museum in Figueres, Spain)! Came here for the first time with my roommates for a night event so there was a DJ, cash bar, fewer crowds, and motion picture stills paying homage to Andy Warhol. For all the artists listed in other reviews for MoMA (Pollock, Van Gogh, Picasso, Matisse) this museum is awesome. Came to love the work of Seurat Georges Pierre, Barnett Newman, Mark Rothko, Sam Francis, and Ad Reinhardt -- names I never knew before. Their works really require tons of time to view and admire and revel in so of course I will always want to and will come back!
All CUNY students with an ID get in free! That was a great surprise when we headed to the ticket desk. Nothing is better than free 99. This museum is not only beautifully designed, but also houses the most famous artists - Picasso, Van Gogh, Matisse to name a few. Definitely worth checking out. I recommend starting from the top floor and working your way down the escalators. They had a great Andy Warhol exhibit on the 6th floor. The cafe has high end meals that are moderately priced. Delicious too. I will definitely come back.
There is a big Miro exhibit going on which was pretty cool. And right now Fridays are FREE admission after 4pm! It was kind of crowded, but not excessively. MoMa is always a good place to go and kill a few hours. Personally I'm not the biggest fan of modern art, but there are some gems scattered in there like Picasso, Frida Kahlo, Van Gogh, etc. Worth the trip, especially when it's free.
Decent collection of modern art.. I love Picasso and Van Gogh.  They also  have this huuuge, panoramic waterlily done by Monet which is absolutely breathtaking.  I think they own the largest Waterlily piece by Monet. I'd prefer to come here over the Met if you had to pick a museum to visit in NYC. $20 for non-students and $12 for students.
First time back since maybe 2000 (before the big expansion), to see "Take your time: Olafur Eliasson". For modern art fans this place can't be beat - it opened in 1929 and was influential in developing and collecting modern art - its collection is unmatched, IN THE WORLD. And now with the post-expansion much larger digs there's more to see and more space for the art to breathe. Other than the well-known paintings, sculpture, drawings, installations, they've got an extensive film collection (nice theaters too) and thousands of other art/design related materials. I saw an original print (restored) of Citizen Kane here at a special 50th anniversary showing and countless other classic films of the past century. Just a few minor things to nitpick, but I guess I'll get used to them. The new layout is gonna take me some getting used to - I spent all the 90s visiting the MOMA as a member, so it's just hard when institutions change so much. Also the large new lobby seems a little cold and the whole experience is more impersonal and theme park-like. The store is still too small, especially when everyone goes in there on a weekend after the museum closes (guess that's what i get being a tourist now). Besides the permanent collection, MOMA has really amazing shows all the time (also crowded too at peak times). In the 90s went to Cubism show, Picasso shows, Matisse retrospective, Miro, Frank Lloyd Wright, Jackson Pollock, Jasper Johns, and on and on. Wow, I really miss it.
MOMA is always a great place to go when you are visiting New York City. I was there during the Tim Burton exhibit and it was phenomenal, however the lines were so long and the exhibit was so jammed packed that it was merely impossible to really appreciate what I was there to see.   I was disappointed in the long lines, but still went through with an open mind and an open heart for the love of everything art & modern...  MOMA is great...great location, great place, great art museum... You really can't beat MOMA!
Ah MoMA. MoMA is pretty great, a mostly five star place.  I like that the building is open and spacious and white; it makes for a very pleasant visit.  The exhibits I have seen also made for very pleasant visits... the Cartier-Bresson exhibit, for example, was incredible (although it was poorly laid out which really irked me).  And the Marina Abramovic interactive exhibit was bizarre though delightful... and I got to pass through from one part of the exhibit to another by walking between two very naked men.  Can't say I'll ever have a chance to do that again.  Weird but cool. Also the partnership was CUNY is fantastic.  I love that I can drop in any time and -- thanks to my student ID -- see everything fo' free. But! minus one star because sometimes I'm not sold on things being "art" but that's just me.
Umm........come so often So modern So pricey So nice So big So much fun So many cute artsy girls So yummy......food? SO?......go or no go
The MoMA's 4th and 5th floors comprise my favorite standard 2 floor collection of art in this world. On a bad day, I'll work my way up to the 5th, and spend 15 minutes staring at "Starry Night", pulling apart van Gogh's strokes and piecing them back together. On good days, I'll stand in front of whatever massive Pollack is on display, and level a 3 dimensional surface, redrawing Jackson's drizzles and splashes. And the great thing is, I walk away with a smile of contentment on my face! Now, as excessive as the $20 admission seems, you're assured of seeing the works from many of the most historically significant artists in the world: Picasso, Monet, van Gogh, Pollack, Warhol... it would take an eternity to name them all. But, you're also granted access to some of the best modern minds, whose pieces could probably hold their own next to the old masters when their time comes. If you're local, don't wait! Shell out $80 for the season pass! The wealth of new installations throughout the year is too hard to pass up. And, the fact that you'll be your friends' best friend for getting them in for $5 is an obvious added benefit. And like me, you'll come here for therapy, and walk away pretty happy. Every time!
I imagine there are lots of people that can see four yogurt lids hung up in an exhibition and just "get it". I am not one of those people so sometimes the offerings at a museum such as MoMa may miss the mark for me. And after a bit of self reflection I am glad I don't quite understand how yogurt lids constitute art. That being said, MoMa is one of THE museums you should see when you are in New York City. There are a number of amazing finds there - from Van Gogh's Starry Night (and other works) to Monet's Water Lily's. There is a sculpture garden that I'm sure if nice when it's not covered with four inches of snow. There really is a type of art to appeal to everyone - including my favorite, photography. During my visit the Tim Burton exhibit was in town and getting great reviews but due to my poor planning I couldn't reserve a time to see it. I would consider going back to check it out if I am in NYC before it leaves town. If you are planning a trip order your tickets online in advance and reserve a time for it well in advance. One cool thing I found about the museum was the audio tours available on your phone. I have an iPhone so I just went to the website and was listening to details without having the additional encumbrance of the audio tour box (plus I looked way cooler). There is a nice museum shop as well, where you can buy overprices goods to remind you of your trip. All kidding aside there are some unique finds in the store and it is definitely worth checking out. One final note - be prepared for tons of people. The museum was mobbed.
This is such a fabulous museum for lovers of modern art. Not only are there world famous paintings and sculptures but you get to see the newest artists who may be the next Picasso or Van Gogh.  You could spend a whole day looking at all the stuff and then catch a film in the auditorium.  There's a cafe with food which is quite decent. The audio tour is free if you leave a proof of id.
I was astounded at how different MOMA was from sfMOMA. sfMOMA's strong point seems to be its photography exhibits. MOMA's exhibits are so well-rounded and it's hard to soak it all in within a day. Some stand-out pieces were those of Piet Mondrian, Ed Fella, Robert Rauschenberg, Monet, Van Gogh and Warhol. Students only pay $12 and the inspiration to go out there and just paint, write, experiment, explore, design, sculpt, print, invent and photograph is priceless. I was overwhelmed with inspiration. Unlike sfMOMA, visitors are allowed to photograph the artwork just as long as they don't use the flash. The museum is astounding but the store was a tad bit of an upset. Despite how well the products were packaged, set up and displayed, there was not as much goodies to browse through as I do in sfMOMA.
I love this museum, and wish I had more time to see more. I deduct one star because it is very crowded, and I believe $20 is too much to charge for admission (my views on art are pretty socialist, and feel it should be as assessable as possible). Perhaps these two criticisms are at odds with one another, as obviously the $20 charge is not preventing the museum from being too crowded. I'm not sure how I'd fix both of these problems simultaneously... perhaps offer more open hours. I was very lucky to visit during a Dali exhibition, as he is my favorite artist. I found the presentation to be very cohesive and well planned. It showed very well his participation in film, and how film both inspired his art, and his art inspired film. Very well done.
Some of the artwork were hmm..shall we called it bizarre or strange? but we just didn't get it. Some of it was so simple and easy to create that we thought anyone could do that and why the museum display them instead of other mind blowing artwork. Maybe a more thorough explanation of its meaning would be helpful for our barbarian minds. But if you look closely and patient enough (cos there are so many rooms and levels) there were some gems hidden, like popular artists Gustav Klimt's or Andy Warhol's and when we were there, they were showing the Matisse works. If you considered yourself a more serious art aficionado, don't go there on Friday Night Target program, cos the place would be so crowded and full of people taking pictures whether they understand it or not. Not enjoyable! Yeah yeah who couldn't resist free complex art?
Pay what you want Friday nights are definitely a free-for-all (haha, literally.  Get it?  Because it's actually free for all.  Oh, and because it's busy as shit).  Let me just wipe these tears of mirth out of my eyes and then I'll get on with the review ... I freaking love the MoMA.  This was my second visit, the first of which was in July 2007 when Dan Perjovschi's political illustration appeared in the foyer.  Later that year, the book publisher for whom I work published States of Mind: Dan and Lia Perjovschi, a catalog of the couple's work.  How serendipitous! In 2007, on vacation just days before I started my new job a well known university press, I was able to amble through the permanent collection, consisting of masterpieces from some of my favorite artists: Warhol, Kandinsky, Chagall, Picasso, Mondrian, Kahlo, Matisse, Miró, van Gogh, etc.   This visit, during a business trip to the annual meeting of the College Art Association, was much more rushed, since shortly after our 6:50 p.m. arrival, my friend and I, along with everyone else in the museum, were quickly ushered out, about ten minutes before closing.  However, we had time to check out the kitchen appliances exhibit, which was especially cool with its heavy German and Austrian influences, because my friend and I have known each other since we went to high school together in Germany at the turn of the 21st century. But what most pleased me where the photographs from Carolee Schneemann, whose book, edited by Kristine Stiles, Correspondence Course: An Epistolary History of Carolee Schneemann, we've just published, as well as several images by Adrian Piper, about whom we've just published two books: John Bowles' Adrian Piper: Race, Gender, and Embodiment, and Cherise Smith's Enacting Others: Politics of Identity in Eleanor Antin, Nikki S. Lee, Adrian Piper, and Anna Deavere Smith. I also thoroughly enjoyed the images from Ai Weiwei, Becher & Becher, Helen Levitt, and Nan Goldin.  I wish I'd made it to the Man Ray, Gay Block, Tina Barney, Mikhail Subotzky, and Richard Avedon this time around!
While I've technically lived in the city for a year, leaving often for tour has only let me enjoy the city for about 6 months.  In that period of time, I've visited MOMA on an average of once a month. The permanent collection of modern art is absolutely amazing.  Many of the famous works that you've seen referenced or reprinted make their home here in one of the best architecturally designed museums I've visited. The special exhibits are the reason to come back for return visits (although MOMA does rotate their permanent collection as well).  The current main special exhibit is a large collection fo Dada art, which I've always loved.  Also featured is a printmaking exhibit, specifically work created since the year 2000.   As people have said, it's free on Friday (if not a little crowded).  So you have no excuse not to pop your ipod on and absorb.
At the risk of sounding like an elitist snob, membership has its rewards.  For all the non-students out there, the MoMA's a fairly pricey museum excursion ($20), so to save a few beans you can smoosh in with 14,000 strangers on Target Free Friday nights. OR you could shell out $75 for an annual membership.  Exclusive access to new exhibits (no crowds!).  Free unlimited admission and $5 guest tickets (cheap dates!).  Tax deduction and 20% discount at the MoMA book store and design stores (mo money! mo money! mo money!). Oh yeah, it's a swell museum, too.  Seriously, what's not to love?
In comparison to The Metropolitan Museum of Art, I think I like The Metropolitan Museum of Art more just because there they offer more varsities. But that doesn't mean it's not worth going to Museum of Modern Art. Make sure you wore comfortable shoes because there is a lot to see. O~ bring student ID if you are student because you get a discount. As the name implied, all the art is very modern.
I have mixed feelings about modern art. I still can't really figure out how I feel about it, but I think its kind of a love/hate relationship. Some of the stuff they consider "art" blow my mind. A red strip of paint on a white canvas? I can do that. But when you throw in something like Van Gogh's "A Starry Night" then I am blown away and in awe. The MOMA does a good job of easily laying out the different exhibits so you can pick and choose the ones you'd like to see. They are easy to walk through and easy to get out of in case you find the exhibit to be of no interest. I think the architecture/furniture exhibits in modern art museums are fun because you get to see all these crazy things that may or may not hit you as genius. The funniest thing I saw here was this modern type lounge chair which I actually have in another color. That gave me a real laugh. My favorite room was the Euro paintings, and as I mentioned earlier, Van Gogh is my absolute fav. I was stoked to get to see "A Starry Night" in person because I didn't realize it was on exhibit at the MOMA, so that was a very pleasant surprise. Not sure I'd come back, because once you see it all it would be pretty repetitive, but it was a well spent afternoon in NY. One bad note - if you come on a cold day prepare to hold your coat, because the coat check line was about a mile long and would have probably taken at least 30 minutes to get through.
I finally made it to MOMA last Friday for there Target Fridays (FREE ADMISSION from 4-8pm), and it was a great idea for a free night out! Let's see, I finally got there at 6pm and there were plenty of free tickets left that they passed out at the ticket counter. Sadly, there were no more exclusive Tim Burton exhibit tickets by then. But that's okay, cause there were plenty of other things to see. I also picked up my FREE audio guide before heading up the escalators. There are six floors--6th floor for membership holders only, so I started at the fifth floor, and worked my way down. However, I wished worked my way up instead because the second floor had really COOL exhibits like new-design keyboard tray, modern furniture, dating site art display (check it out!), just generally what I thought of as "today modern." I liked seeing Picasso, Van Gogh, Pollack, Seaurat etc pieces, and learned even more through the audio guide which helped me see and learn things I wouldn't have otherwise. The "Artist is Present" is also a interesting work, and there were numerous film screenings throughout the museum when you want to take a break from looking at paintings. And yes, there are a lot of people, but what do you expect-Friday nights are free and it's NYC, get used to it. :)
My Cherished Membership. You were my first And are still the best I've had in New York.
Art has always been open to interpretation, but it is especially so here at MoMA. Recycled cartons and boxes on display? A cotton hemp canvas covered only with organic black paint? A shopping cart of bright yellow trash bags? Do come with an open mind. The architectural design of the museum was very likable - clean, white walls, high ceilings conducive for loud echoes, boxy staircases, and playful cartoons that adorned the walls. I believe the highlights of the museum were the "Photographs by Women", the "Matisse" and the other painting exhibits. There's also a MoMA books section, which I perused. Just a note: They have "Starry Night" by Van Gogh as well as select Picasso paintings!
This review is only for the theatre in MoMA!** The old crowd in the theatre is more entertaining than the movies itself. My professor told me that Stony Brook students get free admission - I'm a student and I paid 6 dollars. Me thinks not? While I love the nostalgic aura the theatre has, not worth coming back unless something good comes around!
It took me 9 years of NYC residency to make my first trip to the MOMA. For shame! It took a little known artist by the name of Salvador Dali to finally draw me in... I'm definitely hooked! Students! Hello! Check! You get discounts and free admission! Es verdad! I forget the exact details, I was so blown away... Also, with your admission ticket, you also get a ticket to P.S. 1.  Such a deal! While we waited on line, I even had a quick exchange with Mr. Bob Saget. I wanted to ask him about his roast, but decided to keep our conversation strictly to art. The space itself is more than gorgeous! Anyway, I definitely want to go back frequently as I have much, much more exploring to do and movie screenings to catch!  Maybe I'll even brave one of the free Friday evenings...
Modern Art museums confuse me a little bit. I see things I like, and you can see the talent that so many people have. But blank canvases confuse me. Does this mean I could be an artist too?
Well my review for this spot is a little late but I still wanted to give them the 5 stars they deserve! I loved this place because (drum roll please): 1) long enough to really see alot but short enough where I wasn't bored and wishing that I was out somewhere else. 2) cool, cool, cool stuff. My kind of place. They usually have something different so I don't mind coming back and back and back :) Go during the week when it's not as crowded. They have headphones that you can remote play when you walk up to the art piece by entering the card number next to it. HURRY: there is a TIM BURTON exhibit running till the end of April '10
NYC natives are able to see the art works BEFORE taking an art history survey. AND It has 3 expensive but good restaurants. The day I went recently, there were more people in the cafes than in the galleries. It WAS a pleasure, however, to see a preteen boy running around amazed and delighted at the works. I once had an office job there and wrote a check to Picasso. It used to be a good pickup spot (dunno about today). As for bringing a college ID, in my day there was no such thing.
A must see in NY.  Not just for those into modern art - it has something for everyone.  Get the audio tour for the story behind the work and a bit on the artist.
What is Art?  Is it not the manifestation of thoughts and inspiration, displayed through a medium for the world to consume?  And in that case, is this review not art?  Indeed, this review is as artistic as that fan Olafur Eliasson hung from the ceiling, or that multi-colored chair that sits permanently in the design room.  This review bursts with the colors of my neurons, it sparkles with the inspiration of a thousand Yelp posts, it flutters with the airy weight of a horse hair.   10,000 years from now, this review will be hung on the wall of the Museum of Modern Art as a prescient commentary on the state of art in the year 2010.  Keeping that in mind, you may purchase this review from me for $6,554,355, a fair price given the impact it will have on the art world.
Free on Friday, broke college student magnet. Six stories of awesome that will kill your feet if you endeavor to see it all (oh, but do it all). Dadaism exhibit, which is over I think, was spiffy. Delicious aromas coming from the cafe, but the line to be seated is frozen in time. If it starts to rain, they kick you inside away from the pond/fountain/patio outside. Worth the twenty minute wait on a Friday afternoon. Listening to stuffy art conversations is positively amusing if nothing else!
Great variety of art here.. its much better than the SF Moma in terms of variety and quantity. Plus Fridays are free..   I thought it was going to be mad crowded but it was quite manageable. Monet's Water Lilies were quite nice.. very peaceful. Van Gogh's Starry Night was dreamy. Salvador Dali's stuff was psychedelic. Rothko's art was color dancing and transforming before my eyes. The $20 entry fee is kinda steep but since I went on Friday I didn't have to pay out what is equivalent to one lap dance. =)
The New York MoMA is awesome. 10x better than the SF MoMA. First of all, the architecture of the building is amazing. The collections that are on display are vast and basically has everything you can think of. My favorite is the architecture section which totally blows away the SF MoMA's collection. The courtyard is amazing. You can enjoy the weather while looking at art....that is if the weather is actually nice in the city. Besides exhibitions, the museum store is HUGE.
Modern art might represent he apex of the human mind's creative powers. This is never more apparent than at the MoMA.  I can't help but look at Warhol's Campbell Soup cans or Pollock's Paint Streaks on Canvas or Jasper John's American Flag or Piet Mondrian's Broadway Boogie Woogie or Barnett Newman's Red Painting with Stripes or Picasso and marvel at the minds behind the exaltation of these pieces. I suggest getting the free audio headset for the full experience behind these exaltations. I'm not saying these pieces aren't interesting and that they aren't cultural artifacts but I'd argue they are as much artifice as they are artifact.  Someone looked at these and, using just the power of the human mind, created context and meaning for why these pieces were brilliant.  Others followed and, voila, 'genius' has been created - a patchwork quilt of exaltation that is slightly altered over time like a multi-authored Wikipedia article. Now I'm fond of several art forms - movies and rock music being my two favorites.  While cultural context does play some role in exalting some music vs others - you can't separate, say, "Blowing in the Wind" without the context of the 1960's - I think greatness in these art forms is primarily context-independent.  A great movie or a great song can be felt.  I'd argue that most of modern art is completely context-dependent - without the mythology and artifice built up around it, a piece's greatness is often arbitrary. The perfect metaphor for this is found on the 4th floor where, upon a bed of twigs, a series of neon numbers are lined up.  As best as I recall, the order was 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 86, 141.  After a minute of head scratching, I deduced the pattern.  Where I had previously been perturbed by the sculpture, I suddenly felt pleased because some part of it made sense (see bottom of review for pattern).  I think many people critiquing art glom onto either the collective interpretation and/or a personal interpretation of a work and mistakenly project the joy of "solving this puzzle" as an appreciation of the piece.  Consider how several styles of modern art deconstruct images - these are perhaps puzzles in the more overt sense but no less puzzling than something like why Ellsworth Kelly's "Colors for a Large Wall" is 'art'.   I wonder how much of modern art appreciation comes down to whether the person associates this appreciation with intellectualism and sophistication.  I don't think it's a coincidence that extremely wealthy people gravitate towards art.  The amateur psychologist in me thinks that extremely rich people feel a sense of guilt and undeserved entitlement given their disproportionate wealth (especially those that inherited or married into it).  They use art appreciation to justify in their minds that they are sophisticated and deserve the high status they achieved.  I much prefer it when they direct this sense of guilt toward charitable causes. Anyway, all that said, I don't HATE modern art or the MOMA.  There are so many pieces here that something is likely to strike your fancy.  I liked some stuff - e.g., some oil paintings by Ren Magritte, a multi-layered glass painting by Salvador Dali.  (To my frustration, his famed "The Persistence of Memory" - aka the melted clock painting - is on loan for most of 2008).  Independent of my views on their genius, it was cool to see pieces like Van Gogh's "Starry Night" in person.  And I did enjoy some things in other areas like Photography, Sculpture, and some video-based visuals. If you're the type who loves art, this place is a must-see and 5 stars. Consider my 3 stars for the rest of us who are ambivalent (at best) about art.  You should still check this out but go in with expectations in check and consider my POV on art appreciation - you just might enjoy yourself more because of it.   (note: the pattern is simply the third number being the sum of the two numbers preceding it.  1+1=2, 1+2=3, 2+3=5, etc.)
I'm so sad that tickets to the Van Gogh exhibit were sold out by the time I got there.  I did go on Friday night for free (4-8pm) so I guess I shouldn't have been surprised.  The line to get in around 5pm went around the block but we were in within 15 minutes or so. I loved this place.  Even though it was incredibly crowded and I was overwhelmed by the number of amazing artists, it was my favorite museum experience in a long while.  Going from one room to another to another with works by Lichtenstein, Warhol, Miro, Picasso, de Kooning, Monet and Cezanne put me in a daze.  There was so much more that I can't think of at the moment.  I am still processing. I'm not the best company in museums because I get absorbed when I'm looking at things, I don't talk and I don't like waiting for people or feeling rushed so it was probably good that I ended up alone for most of the 4th-6th floors.  I came out exhausted but I can't wait to go back.
This place is huge.  It has 6 floors (I think) but the most important ones are the 4th and 5th floors.  I wish I knew that since we started from the first one!  This place was very overwelming, especially on free Fridays that is sponsored by Target from 4p on.  The current modern achitecture exhibit was interesting, but for the most part, boring.  Very Ikea (probably since I'm not in the industry).  The audio tour was minimal and I didn't like how they have your government-issued ID on hold until you return it.   They did have Warhol, Chagall, Gauguin and Kahlo from what I remember.  The variety was awesome, but again, overwelming.  You should just pay and come here when you have time and when there aren't a lot of people.  Also, do not wear 5-inch heels like I did!  I was not very pleased at the end of the night b/c my feet hurt (my bad).   Would recommend if you've never come here.  Also, bring your camera, it's acceptable with no flash.  And it's more casual than Guggenheim.
I definitely didn't have enough time here.  I will be back!  There wasn't a piece I didn't enjoy.  Highlights include the current Bruce Nauman: Days exhibit and the hands-on aspect of Yoko Ono's wish tree outdoors.   Well-designed open space with lots of staircases to choose from to get from floor to floor.  Of course, there's also the elevator if you prefer.  Even on a busy Sunday afternoon I had plenty of space to wander. Check the schedule for free tours and talks going on throughout the day.  I only noticed this on my may out.
A museum, with Modern Art. This much shouldn't surprise anyone, given the name of the place. They have a variety of objects, from paintings to photography to sculpture and industrial design and household objects. You'll find many well known artists' work here: Picasso, Matisse, Pollock, Warhol and many, many, MANY more. If you live in the NYC area, it's definitely worth considering an annual membership which costs $75. A single adult admission costs $20, so if you go only a few times in that year, it's worth it. The membership is tax deductible, and hey, you get to support the arts, which is certainly important! I got my membership because it was the only way to get in to see the Tim Burton exhibit (Nov '09-Apr '10), which was due to end. All timed tickets for the final week had all sold out, but with a membership, you had free unlimited access, along with bypassing any waiting lines. In the year following, I've been a couple more times, to see other special exhibits. A membership also allows you to bring guests with you, up to 5 per visit, for $5 per person. That saves your guests $15! With the recent Picasso Guitars exhibit, I even received 2 free guest passes in the mail. Certainly I've gotten my money's worth, and can recommend getting one. MoMA always has a few rotating exhibitions in various fields going on at any given time, so it's worth checking regularly to see what's going on (they will also send you email as a member, I imagine you can sign up for notifications otherwise too.)
This place is a hit or miss. Depending on the exhibit. Unfortunately this time around it was a miss. Free Fridays from 4pm till closing at 8:30pm.
Wow. Just wow. My dad came to town this weekend and his one request was to go to MoMA. I am so glad we did. I think  must have looked like some sort of jack ass all day yesterday because I couldn't stop smiling. This is my kind of art - Van Gogh, Monet, Warhol, a little Klimt, and lots of Picasso. We also saw the new sculpture exhibition by Serra (I think that's his name anyway) and it was so interesting. I got some great shots of his pieces in the sculpture garden. Any place that lets me play photographer, makes me happy. We stopped and had a bite to eat in the 5th floor cafe and it was ok. Totally overpriced for what you get, and they include the tip in the check, which annoyed both me and my dad, but hey, it's NY, they can get away with anything, right?
The MET has the most amazing catalog in the Western Hemisphere. That said, I think the average joe with a passive knowledge of art doesn't necessarily appreciate Etruscan art. The Moma on the other hand basically has every painting that has adorned a college dorm room wall as a poster for the past 20 years. Dali, Pollack, Picasso, Warhol, Monet, Mondrian... "no worries bro, it's here." Not exactly cheap after the renovation. Also, Persistance of Memory is traveling so don't waste your time going until it comes back in June (You don't trade Kobe Bryant for Jerome James... whether for 18 months or not).
Love. Electronic art? Love. Abstract sculpture? Love I don't really know shit bout art. I just know it from it's correlations through music. And anything that reminds me of minimalist, microtonal, or otherwise avant garde music is going to make me happy to look at. Love. I wish I lived in this damn museum. Or at least be a security guard here. Forget being a famous jazz musician. I want to be a security guard at MoMa.
Downtown Manhattan has 3 big art museuems: Guggenheim, Metropolitan and MoMA. When it comes to art, I tend to be into stuff like pop art, graffiti, the abstract, political/social statements, pieces regarding current events and stuff that's just generally funky or bohemian. Guggenheim seems to lean toward stuff made by old European men like daVinci, Monet and Van Gogh, i.e. stuff like the Mona Lisa or Starry Night which we've all seen millions of times. From what I could gather, Metropolitan skews toward uppity, high-brow stuff. BORING. MoMA on the other hand, that art museum is more my type. It's quite confusing to navigate, but you get the hang of it after a while. The 2nd floor has an exhibit of pieces done by South African artists. This was interesting, but a bit of letdown as most of the pieces were so cryptic and very few of them had an explanation to go with them. On the 4th floor, you see the Guerilla Girls exhibit. These were socially conscious pieces done by women of color which all made for some great thinking time. Then you saw a few pieces related to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina before you get to the Pop Art section which was definitely my favorite. Several of the pieces were done by Andy Warhol (one of my favorite artists). I really wish there were some pieces done by Basquiat though (unless I missed them?). The 3rd floor contains an exhibit on technology, which probably would have been much more interesting had it been more interactive beyond the point of wearing 3-D glasses or putting on headphones just to watch/hear a monitor. Overall, this is a great art collection for those of us who know there is more to art besides those ~timeless~ pieces or don't see what the big deal is about a stick which was broken in two and thrown in a corner by Picasso for example.
Handy dandy UCLA id has benefits: $12 admission for students! Not that MoMA isn't worth $20, but save where you can. I LOVE MoMA. So many iconic pieces that you've probably "seen," except that seeing prints and reproductions just isn't the same as seeing art life-size and in person. I was a disappointed that a few pieces were out on loan, but there's still so much greatness. It can be hard to really take things in sometimes because of the swarms of people around the more famous pieces. But it's not nearly as crowded as the Met. I also got a kick out of the Helvetica exhibit. You don't realize how omnipresent that font is. I mean, you're probably reading a variation of it right now! Best museum ever.
Warhol, Jeff Koons, Rothko, Monet, Manet...  what's not to love? I could sit and stare all day.  I'm a member, totally recommend it.  Tons of perks and discounts.   I would type more but my finger is busted and this has taken me 15 min as it is lol... dont forget to check out Danny Meyer's restaurant  ..."the modern"
Just snuck in a few weeks ago to catch the Pixar exhibit, just another example of why I LOVE this museum. I suppose I'm a fan of all parts of the creative process but I guess I would have to say that modern art is what does it for me. The Modern (see my yelp about it) is also one of my favorite things about this fine city of ours.
Warhol! Lichtenstein! Mondrian! Matisse! Pollock! Picasso! Van Gogh! & more, more, more! Many of my favorite artists works are hanging on the lovely white walls of the MoMA. The photography section was interesting, the furniture section made me drool, the paintings were gorgeous as ever. This an all-day affair, so don't try to run through in a hour. Don't go hungry! All the cafes seem to be closed except the overpriced Terrace 5. We enjoyed our food, but the service was sub par & the bill tremendous for trace amounts of food.
MoMA is easily one of my favorite places in all of New York.  As a student of modern art, I am a little biased, but this is one of the best museums in the world!  The permanent collection is exhaustively impressive; I can spend hours upon hours wandering through the expansive rooms.  The museum's location in the heart of Midtown allows for some interesting views from the shaded floor-to-ceiling windows.   MoMA is known for its excellent special exhibitions -- Doug Aitken's Sleepwalkers is just one recent standout.  There are about 13 exhibitions going on this spring, and it's always a good bet to check out the website before visiting so you can make a list of things to see. If you feel like trekking out to Long Island City, check out P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center, an affiliate of MoMA.  It's the oldest non-profit arts center devoted exclusively to contemporary art, and it's a great side trip for all of you modern art lovers out there.  Another can't-miss element of this small empire: the MoMA Design Store, located directly across the street!
Some people think 'modern art' is a toaster in a corner... and it could be, but it's also Van Gogh, Matisse, Picasso, Dali, Cezanne, Gauguin and Miro' to name just a few. MOMA's permanent collection is loaded with very accessible pieces from masters like the ones I've mentioned and modern artists like Koons, Warhol, Rothko and more. In other words, there's something for everyone. The permanent collection alone is world class - period, end of story. Then there are the special exhibits. For example, right now the Van Gogh 'Colors of the Night' exhibit is sensational. A wonderful collection of paintings, sketches and letters that show how Van Gogh played with light and color. Some paintings (Starry Night for example) I've seen before, but many are completely new to me. Beautifully presented and thoughtfully arranged. On a recent visit, I loved the George Lois Esquire cover exhibit. This is the kind of 'small' exhibit that is an unexpected jewel. Kudos to the curators. Wheelchair access: Terrific. Ramps are easy. Elevators are large. Good bathrooms.
Where else can you pay $20 per person to watch a huge projector screen a woman furiously brushing her hair or a larger-than-life-sized balloon animal on the roof made out of gods-knows-what, or maybe a room full of string? Nowhere! But you can here! I don't know what it is about art that I like when I like it, except that it moves me. And some stuff here does that. Contrarily, some stuff here looks like something I, the completely untalented in any artistic way, artistic spaz could've made.
"This is Halloween. This Halloween..." No, I didn't visit MoMA then, but I came here to be enchanted by the Tim Burton exhibit.  I was first enamoured by this 'crazy' (in a good way) director in "The Nightmare Before Christmas".  The characters are so freaky, yet so lovable.  How could you not sympathize with Jack? This exhibit displays lots of Burton and some of his collaborators' creations, ranging from his early years to his recent creations.  You first enter into a black and white striped tunnel before reaching roomful of artworks.  As always, lots of crowds and do move in one direction or else the entire system would become a chaos.  I was overwhelmed by all the items presented (as always in a museum), but you learn a bit about this artist/director and how he was destined to be an amazing artist.  This exhibit will run till end of April 2010. Of course, I had to revisit my "Starry Night".  Can't visit MoMA without stopping by to see my 'man''s work.  Nothing beats van Gogh.  Again, another 'crazy' artist whom I adore.
Free admission on Target Friday 4-8pm. Score! But when it's the regular admission price, even $12… Read more »
This museum always makes me question what is art. I am pretty sure half the trash in my trash can could be art sometimes when I see the stuff in here. But an ongoing exhibit of Van Gogh? And Monets... And Matisse... And Kandinsky... And then sculpture. And well... just wow.
I really loved this museum! It's probably the biggest I've ever been to, and the collection they have here is bigger than everyone else's. Anyone who loves art, sculpture, photography, film, whatever you consider to be art needs to make this place a priority when they come to NY. It also helps to have a student ID, cause I had my old one and got the student discount! It's definitely a place you could probably spend the whole day at, but if you have one particular interest, you can always stick to that one. But I say you need to visit every inch of the place to see everything. By the way, I'd give one star to all the people in the place who a) take flash photography even with someone tells them they can't REPEATEDLY, b) people who stand in the way when I'm trying to take a shot of Picasso, and c) people who push me just so they can get in front of me while I'm admiring artwork. They suck!
My first time in the re-done Museum of Modern Art.  We went there on Target free friday nights, so the joint was mobbed.  This is one museum where I feel like the now obligatory audio tour was totally uncessary- dude- I already know about Pablo Picasso, you know.  The permanent collection is just draw dropping- not particularly revelatory, because I'd seen almost every painting a million times in the course of my education/day to day life.  Truly, they have the most iconic collection of art I've ever seen anywhere ever. The new space is great- the have windows that give you floor to ceiling views of mid town. In some gallery rooms I felt that the windows were more interesting then the paintings and the crowds. Def. a great tourist spot- how could you not go? Although the answer might be "because it costs $20!" Yikes!  From a design standpoint, I would say the Tate Modern is better, but not by much.
This is one of the few places I will visit time and time again despite the always crowded madness of the place and the high price of admission.  The collections and the building are noteworthy.  My favorites include: - Klimt's "The Park" - van Gogh's "Starry Night" - Matisse's "Dance" - Chagall's "I and the Village" - Monet's enormous "Reflections of Clouds on the Water-Lily Pond"
Alright let's cut the crap here. I'm not going to go off on a pretentious rant about how existential the pieces were and how it made me contemplate my reason of being on this planet. However, what I did do was take advantage of their Free Admission Fridays (Free every Friday from 4-8PM) and take a stroll in one of "The Things That Make The Urban Deathmaze of NYC Worth Living In". The line stretched for what seemed liked endless miles, I got there at 3:30PM on a Friday and the line wrapped around the block three times before I finally reached the end. I thought I was doomed to suffer in the sweltering humidity with no choice of entertainment except for my boyfriend's oddball friend, when the line suddenly started to move! I was in the front door by 3:55PM, no joke. So the museum opens it's doors at around 3:40 it seems and no one gets denied admission (I think). Truly worth a visit to see the thousands of purple, phallic-shaped pillows sewed to a rowboat, interactive electronic art, chairs made from paper, Henri Matisse exhibits, and the good old misshapen women of Picasso.
The building design, the curators, the bar/cafe at the top of the museum, all great.  Prices are a little steep, but if it's freezing cold outside, it's an interesting way to spend time getting warm.   That being said.....What passes for art these days simply baffles me.  Naked midget dwarf sculptures....yep, that's art alright.  A tuna can that says "artist's shit" on it...  A photo collection of pubic hair.....art-a-rific.  Note the sarcasm.  I just don't get modern art.  I never will, I respect that people are attempting to create something unique, but seriously, a lot of the displays made me burst into laughter, rather than a deep appreciation of an artistic gift.  Maybe I would have had a different take on the place if I had gone during a traveling exhibit, but alas, I wasn't so fortunate.  At one point, just to entertain myself, I started staring at the fire exit door.  Eventually, I had 6 people around me pushing to get a view at the door as though it was an exhibit.   Art is subjective - I appreciate the attempts, but just don't get it.  Go for yourself and form your own opinion.   You should have a good time. If you have a sense of humor, spend some time staring at random objects and see if people will "oohh and ahhh" around you.  If all else fails, they serve alcohol in the cafe.
I have not been to the Pompidou Center in Paris, but the Museum of Modern Art in New York is easily the best Modern Art museum in the world. It's not even a contest. The collection consists of some of the biggest names in art history. Matisse, Monet, Pollock, Chagall, Warhol, etc. I found myself several times looking at several paintings and being completely entranced. It's quite an experience. To top it all off, I would have been satisfied with the permanent collection, but there was also the Van Gogh exhibit. Van Gogh is my favorite artist (I know, how different) and to be able to see the painting considered to be his magnum opus, Starry Night, was an experience I'll always remember. I must admit, I'm not a fan of much modern art after the cubists, but for fans of it, there is alot of it in the museum. For example, the last time I went, the top floor was showing a great exhibit of works by Spanish artist Joan Miro.
I like specific eras in modern art, and particular artists, but modern art as a whole generally makes me sigh heavily and long for a Dutch master or a medieval triptych instead. But I'm game, y'know? I am nothing if not game for a museum experience. So when a friend offered up two passes to take my mother and myself to the MoMA during my mother's visit to NYC, we went. With more or less open minds. It was raining. Torrentially. And apparently every tourist within a 5 mile radius had descended on the place. It was next to impossible to see half of the stuff because other guests were crowded around whatever you wanted to see, taking umpteen gazillion iPhone photos of whatever it was. And fully one whole bank of elevators (out of a possible 2, as far as I could tell) seemed not to be working, while the museum staff next to the elevator offered no explanation and in fact avoided all eye contact. I should probably go again - sans monsoon, sans mother kvetching about German Expressionists having obvious mental disorders, sans 82 million sopping wet tourists. Maybe I will. Maybe there is an afternoon in August just waiting to become a 1/2 day vacation so that I can explore this place without the additional sensory overload and the editorial commentary of La Matriarch.  Maybe my experience would be better if so. But based on the initial experience? Eh....it was okay. But not transfixingly awesome.
Today was a Friday, so I went at 4 pm to get in for free. (20 bucks adds up y' know) However, there appeared to be a long line, but it was a quickly moving one so I wasn't too irked by it. Getting in was a matter of minutes. Can I just say that MOMA has a lot of cool stuff but something needs to be done about the people, the hordes of 'em that is. I think they should do a head count of the number of people exiting and entering. There should be an ebb and tide thing going on. I walked out of the museum 3 hours later, inspired and entertained. I was entertained by the fact that some of my personal thoughts have actually shown up on canvas in some artistic medium by many artists. Entertained by purely watching other people's reactions to some of the works of art. The musuem gift shop had gazillions of arty fartsy books along with many COOL high-end gadgets from different countries all over the world. Wanted to give the cafe a try as well, but since I was alone, I couldn't afford to look bad so I passed it up for next time. I love MOMA. Can anyone join us in holy matrimony?
While I may not truly appreciate and occasionally question what qualifies as modern art, MomA is still worth a trip. MoMA is one of the coolest museums to visit IMHO. Oh and it's seemingly extremely busy all days of the week and I believe they close on Tuesdays! Obviously there are rotating exhibits in the museum and I didn't end up catching one that captured my attention. However, I think the sculpture garden and just the general layout of the museum makes it worth going to at least once - hopefully when there's an interesting (to you) exhibit. I do dig the Picasso guitar exhibit (photography prohibited inside) and various other pieces. I would much rather go to MoMA than the Met for future visits. Then again, since I am no museum aficionado I tend to breeze through museums quickly.
I just cracked myself up reading the 1-star reviews for MoMA! Why do people who hate modern art go here? Cuz some guidebook tells them they should do it when they visit NYC? I mean, if I hate pizza, I'm not going to like it any better in Rome. At least appreciate the dramatic architecture, the sculpture garden, the people-watching... something! Yes, there are those kind of exhibitions that make you go "Huh?"... like all-white canvases, or one fluorescent bulb on a wall... but there are so many fine art masterpieces here... come on, people! The current German Expressionist show features art just from MoMA's own collection, and it's astounding! I've been a member for 10+ years and it's the best investment. $120 for a family (well, it's a dual membership and kids are free) and you can go anytime; but best of all, during member preview days! And members-only mornings! Escape the German tourists!
Paid a visit to MOMA on Christmas Eve with my mom and sister. This was my first visit since the MOMA moved back to Midtown East from Queens. The architecture of the building designed by Japanese architect Yoshio Taniguchi is beautiful! I got to see my Picasso favorites, "Mademoiselle dAvignon", "Three Musicians", and "Girl Before a Mirror". I HEART Picasso. They had an excellent Seurat exhibit as well. I only gave the MOMA four stars however because of the way high entry free. $20 is CRAZY!
I'm not an artsy person, but when I had a chance to explore NY MOMA with my sister (who gets in for free) I jumped at the opportunity.  Certain exhibits were more my style than others, but I enjoyed at least looking at all of it.  Some things held my attention longer than others, but that's art, right?  The installation they had up on the top floor was pretty cool, it seemed almost like student projects or something, and we all enjoyed poking around it. In nicer (aka warmer) weather, I would imagine sitting out in the sculpture garden would be very nice.  As it was quite chilly the day we were there we just did a quick walk through.  I also thought it was great that you could take photographs (without flash) of almost everything, and that there were sections of each floor where you could use your cell phone.  Sometimes you just have to take a call, and being yelled at by the hall monitor people is never fun.
Four stars because it isn't as good as the Met, but otherwise it is incredible.  There is something about standing in front of a "famous" painting, even if you're not its biggest fan, that puts things into perspective.....for me, Starry Night was one of those paintings.  A sense of appreciation for beauty, nostalgia, or seeing something spectacular. Overall the architecture of the building is very appealing and you really can't beat the free passes (2 per Bank of America Credit Card) deal, but if I were paying full price I'd be more inclined to head to the Met. Loved the large walls and direct focus on art over architecture, but all told there wasn't as much to see as the Met or the Natural History Museum.  All told you can make it through MoMA in ~3 hours. Certainly a desitnation museum for all the right reasons, regardless.
The Dali exhibition was exhilarating. They showed his films along with his art. I always wanted to see the infamous eyeball slicing scene in Un Chien Andalou and there it was. Last time I went they were still housed in PS1. The new building is among the nicer museum spaces. I love the seating area on the second floor. It's flat and wide and conducive to lying down rather than sitting. People are either staring up into the vertical space, or just as often, taking naps! Conversely all the floors have punchouts that face the space, from which you can check out these people in repose. A visual dialog begins to form, thus challenging the traditional notions of visitor, museum and that of art itself. (I was just trying to come off like a pretentious a-hole. How did I do?) The layout is seemingly simple but I found it hard to navigate, as I kept reentering rooms I had already seen or kept missing areas entirely. The people who work there are all really nice. I'm starting to realize that New Yorkers have upended their old stereotypes, and on this trip I've found all servicepeeps to be particularly genuine, helpful and nice. Where does one have to go to find a rude New Yorker anymore? In the San Francisco Bay Area, heh heh...
MoMA is awesome.  There are a ton of famous paintings that are also quite interesting.  I especially like their collection of works by Picasso and Monet. Their special contemporary exhibits are really cool.  I especially liked the orange fluorescent lamps they had that turned everyone walking under them monochrome. This is a must-go for NYC.
This place was fairly interesting and entertaining but I think in the end I'm just not a huge fan of modern art. I've been to several famous modern art museums here as well as in Chicago where they were termed MUST visits and in the end I always left a little disappointed not because the art was bad or the display wasn't done correctly ... but because I'm so confused as to how some of the things in the museum could be called ART. I understand that modern art must be very edgy, almost like a high fashion photograph. You have to be out there, you have to be a little crazy, and you must show some rawness. But I think this is a little too raw for me, some of the things in here looked like I could have done it myself or maybe I have in the past when I dented a trash can ... or something?
I am not a huge modern art fan... but I think that the museum is worth visiting at least once (mostly for tourists). It's not worth paying for, especially for $20 admission, but I would recommend taking advantage of the Friday Afternoon 4-8 free admission. The wait is pretty long, but that's nothing new for New York. There is a lot of space to cover if you're interested in seeing everything, and the art is laid out well. However, the exhibits do not change very often, so there's not much of a point to going too often.  The gift shop has some interesting knick-knacks... anything of decent quality is expensive, and there are some very cheap novel toys for little kids. The modern restaurant is attached, and DEFINITELY worth trying if you don't mind spending some serious money. See separate review on The Modern.
I've always loved how the MOMA stay consistent with new pieces and exhibits like the Tim Burton Exhibit (Which I never got to see, maybe I'll catch it last min who knows). Students get in free, and Fridays are free as well. I love the layout of the MOMA. Every corner you turn there is something else to fascinate you with it's beauty. I love coming here. I mostly came because of school trips but found that after High School I'd still have reasons to want to come back. There are some truly memorable pieces here.
Henri Cartier-Bresson.  NYC.  Museum.  Saturday during a holiday weekend.  Well, almost all were great ideas.  Everywhere you look you are in the presence of beauty, from the great art, to the patrons, to the lovely sculpture courtyard.   The museum is outstanding.  If you can get there, the exhibit is SO worth it.
Best museum in the city, hands down. There are always interesting exhibits to challenge the human mind there.  Some collections change out every couple months and some just seem to stay there forever. Its right in the center of the city so its easy to get there and you could just sit there all day and still enjoy yourself.   Personally I enjoy this style of art much more than what is at the MET and other museums but thats just personal preference. ~
LOVE MOMA! Tips: BUY TICKETS ON LINE! Or else you will wait in line for over 30 min to just buy the ticket. Even more sweet, know someone that can give you free tickets :) Give yourself about 3 hours to see it all, briskly. A lot of Europeans...kind of annoying. Walk in front of you, don't watch where they're walking, and have the holier than thou attitude. Yes you came to the United States to see artwork that is by your people, get over it. MOMA beat you to acquiring the masterpieces. But museum is AMAZING! remember no touchey and no flash photography
I've been to NYC many times but the MoMA is something I try to get in my schedule every time. If you have any interest in modern art, this place is must and would even necessitate a trip just to see MoMA. They have special exhibits on all the time that's worth keeping up with. I found the MoMA iPhone app really helpful while I was in NY and still interesting and worthwhile having for the occasional browsing.
Free Target Fridays Admission 4-8pm! Thanks to my extensive research, we were able to save some money on our trip to NYC :) and it was conveniently located across the street from the subway and near the famous halal cart! ahh! There was no line to get into the museum whatsoever, all they did was pass out the tickets at the info booth, which is pretty quick in general.  As for lines, they had them for the coat checks and pick ups! This MoMa is definitely bigger and more spacious than the one in SF.  I am glad we got to go there to compare both sides of the country's museum differences.  Definitely alot more modern art displays and themes.  I will have to admit it though, after awhile walking through the galleries, I tend to zone out and don't understand how some of the pieces of art you see, is called ART!  I get tired and I have no capability to think deeper than I should be :P Too bad the rooftop garden sculptures were closed during the winter! If you are like me, drop by just so that you are able to say, "I've been here :) !! "
Great museum, with a great store! I don't live in NYC, but I am always buying things from their store. For those with tired feet - there are plenty of seating options, and the second floof cafe is a nice break.
It's a very nice museum, though not it didn't make a great impression on me.   There was a lot of pop art, surrealism and expressionism which I all like.  There were also a lot of styles under that roof which doesn't belong in the 'modern art' concept according to me.
The museum is nice to visit, but I love the cool stuff at the gift shop!
Its only $12 for a student admission, thats so little money to spend half a day in awe. They got: Van Gough's/Dali's/Magritte's/Monet's/Warhol's/Jasper Johns'/plus+++ all under one roof. *I gotta say, I enjoy the San Francisco MoMa store much more than the NY counterpart.
This is a great museum, and it's one of those museums that are even greater when it's not overrun by crowds. I wonder how awesome of an experience it'd be to be the only person in the MoMA. I love the design of the building itself. the internal architecture is very thoughtfully built and arranged. i found myself spending just as much time looking through one of its glass windows as i did staring at Dali. You should check with your company or organization; i wouldn't be surprised if you can get a corporate/employee discount. And if not, I'd highly suggest getting a membership. The lowest is $75/year (100% tax deductible), which gets you free entrance whenever, invites to special exhibits, screenings, and openings. This way you can avoid the terrifying Friday afternoon lines for 'free entrance.' i say 'free' because for the amount of time you spend waiting in that darn line or struggling through the immense crowd, if it's not costing you money, it's definitely costing some insanity and nerve damage.
The big city can be incredibly exciting with all the social events to attend/decline, but for those moments when you find yourself in need of reflection to clear the noise, this is the place to escape to. Bring your ipod loaded with the music that moves your soul and something to sketch or write with/on in case you get inspired: to change your goals, to just lose yourself in the paintings/sculptures, to create something meaningful, etc. I promise that the music/art combination will elevate your senses to new heights--especially when it is you and your own mindcircus. Filter out the noise and wander by yourself to the outdoor garden, sit at the cafe, peruse each floor...and re-inspire yourself with dreams and imagination.  Therapy 101, less the psychiatrist's hefty bill. And when you're done wiping the tears away and ready to rejoin the world, meet your friends at The Modern--transformed.
Very Cool, I just went for the first time to the new building last weekend and enjoyed myself thoroughly.  It is $20 to get in so make sure you have some time on your hands.  I got there 2/12 hours before close and that really wasn't enought time as I pretty much booked it through some galleries at the end.   My favorites included the helicopter (amazing that it actually flew, it looks like it's made of an erector set), the architecture and design section, the early 20th century classic stuff and the Photography.  There was a Munch exhibit as well which I had to skim through unfortunately.  Bonus points for spotting the room named after Paris Hilton's boyfriend's family if you remotely care about that sort of thing!  The building itself is perhaps the most interesting and beautiful part.  Just incredible.  A great renovation and a great Museum
Went there last week and was happily surprised.  To see so many of the paintings I've admired in textbooks in their full size and glory was remarkable.   Highlights: The paintings.  Monet's water lily's installation (3 huge panels that filled one room) gave me an epiphany (can you say that?) while I was seated on the bench trying to take it all in.  I get it now, and I didn't before.   The Van Gogh, Picasso, Pollack and Cezanne paintings were also very impressive.  There's a Calder mobile hung in one of the back stairwells, as is a large Matisse: both a bit hidden, but both worth finding. Other notes, the space around Dali's "Persistance of Memory" was crowded for some reasons I understood (it is small) and many I didn't (it's not the Mona Lisa.)   I guess everyone wants to see what the poster they had on their dorm wall looks like in person.  The design area is fun.  I thought that the sculptures and more modern installations left something to be desired. The building and courtyard were also very cool, there's a place on the fourth floor where you look over the courtyard at 53rd ave and it looks like (literal) cross-section of a city block. The only negatives were that it was expensive, and that they kept it very, very cold.  (Apparently art, like meat, is preserved by the cold.)  Like Mom says, bring a sweater.
A friend I hadn't seen in years suggested we have our reunion by visiting the MOMA together, and when I learned they had a Salvador Dali special exhibition going on, the choice was easy. The exhibit was fantastic and I actually went through it twice, I was so mesmerized. It included not just his paintings but his vintage film work as well, and selected sculptures. Some of his original hand-written notes and letters to fellow artists were also on display. Also had time to speed through a Kirchner exhibit.
I love this museum. I always have. When I lived a train ride out of the city I came here on weekdays, but now that I am an out of towner, I come here on Free Target Day and have to say I hate free day unless it is the last hour or so of free day. Crazy masses of people that might go well with a Joy Division or Brian Eno soundtrack. People pose in front of masterpieces, and jackass tourists from who knows where take a picture of everything as annoying women with iPads tell you to get out of the way so she can take a picture - JUST LOOK AT THE PAINTINGS ASSHOLES! Phew, I had to vent! This is an amazing collection and I am obviously a slow day patron. One needs to take deep breaths between galleries as the overload of Picasso and other modern greats. America may lack the stuff from before the late 19th Century (Sorry you have to go to Berlin, Madrid, London, Paris, and Amsterdam - poor you!), but the rich Americans were buying art like crazy in the late 1800s and for most of the 20th century so MOMA is the mother ship for Modern Art in the world really. Sure the AIC in Chicago has a lot of good stuff, but this is the Death Star of Modern Art man -- and if you go up to the Whitney you are redlining it when it comes to art. Love you MOMA, even if I have to swim among the masses to see the masterpieces on Target Free Day.
Pros: 1.Century of the child is very interesting and cute! I really like the doll house that was made of paper. 2.Van Gogh's Starry Night is amaaaaazing. 3.The museum consists of 6 floors. Usually the 6th floor consists of the newest collections and exhibitions.Therefore, they always have new and different artwork so you can go and visit here more than once and not be bored. Cons: 1.Very crowded. 2.This place smells like sweat all over. Probably because it's summer. 3.Some art work is confusing. For example, there's this one painting with two girls in it; legs spread wide open. One of them have her right boob out. Everyone has their own interpretation of each piece, but some are strange looking and I don't understand them even after reading their descriptions. Tips: Free admission on Fridays.
If you like Art, or if you expect to be able to appreciate the artworks with either personal space or a noise level below the subway platforms at Times Square DO NOT go to Friday's 4-8 P.M. "Free Target Fridays." But if you like crowds, crowds like at an amusement park, and your two goals are to spend no money and to take as many pictures of yourself and your friends so you can post them on Facebook or make your own "art" screen saver, them by all means Friday evenings are for you. You will be amongst your people. I was saddened to watch the throngs of people overwhelm the docents' ability to control the galleries. Flash photography was omnipresent as was the use of light focused cameras. Groups of chatty pre-teens clogged in front popular paintings, then nearly ran through the  galleries to get all of their pics taken. The adults were the same, only slower to relinquish the cherished spot, 12 inches away from the artwork, front and center. This is a tough review because the museum has some of my personal favorite works, but overall the experience left me disappointed and annoyed. One could easily spend hours and hours enjoying the artworks here, but not on Fridays.
You can't really sit down and enjoy the art here. There's just too many people. And they're all, more or less, gathered on the 5th floor in front of van Gogh's "Starry Night" or Monet's "Water Lilies". But, truth be told, I was one of them. Those two paintings were my highlights of the museum. We spent most of our time on the 5th and 4th floors, which both have huge collections of paintings and sculptures. Also, the outdoor sculpture garden was very nice and peaceful. Only metal chairs were available, so they weren't the most comfortable to sit on. I'm not really an art person. I only came here because I purchased the NY CityPASS, which included MoMA as one of the six NY attractions I could go to. But if I didn't have the voucher, I wouldn't pay $25 admission fee just to visit two floors packed with people.
According to the Museum of Modert Art, this is what is considered art and worth paying $25 to look at: Panty hose sand bags 3 basketballs floating in an aquarium A painting that reads: Cats in bag, Bags in river A pile of velvet blankets Rocks in an RV An escape vehicle where you can literally hide from the world A freaky Japanese doll Do I agree? Ummmm, the jury is still out on those pieces, but I am in love with Monet's "Water Lilies" and Van Gogh's "Starry Night." Those I could look at for days and never tire. The pile of blankets I can make at home, but the "Water Lilies" are another story altogether. You can do the MOMA in two hours and it's an interesting place to run away from the world. It makes you realize that like art, our so called problems and distractions really should not be taken so seriously. Yelp 365 Challenge: #271/365 (The Artistic Interpretation)
My only minor complaint about MOMA is that they need more benches. The place is huge, and there were times I wanted to take a little break, but the few places to sit that the museum offers were always mobbed with people.  The patio offers a terrific place to take a rest, if you visit during nicer months of the year. Other than that very minor gripe, everything else is as perfect as can be. The collection is diverse and interesting, and it seemed every other room contained a famous work I already knew (and I wouldn't really consider myself much of an art expert.)   The museum is enormous. Even at a brisk pace, it took us several hours and we left without seeing the whole museum.   If you love art, you'll love MOMA.
I had not really been here for a while so for 2012, i visited on 3 consecutive fridays, lol.  Got some culture at MOMA and yes got in for free.  This place does have a great collection of modern art.   Normal price for admission is $20 or 25, i believe.  It is $12 with a college student ID.  Children that are 16 years old and younger, are admitted for FREE (anytime). -Friday hours are 10:30 Am to 8:00 Pm.  Normal day hours are 10:30 Am to 5:30 Pm and the place is closed on TUESDAYS.   -Target Free Fridays is 4-8, I do recommend not going though if you actually do not like crowd.  In some cases at the specific exhibits you can't really enjoy seeing anything due to wall to wall foot traffic around you, and yes many of them are tourists that will invade your space.  I still had a great time here.  I was last here in the beginning of May to check out the Diego Rivera murals before this left the MOMA. -Diego Rivera was the subject of MoMA's second monographic exhibition (the first was Henri Matisse), which set new attendance records in its five-week run from December 22, 1931, to January 27, 1932. MoMA brought Rivera to New York six weeks before the exhibition's opening and gave him studio space within the Museum, a strategy intended to solve the problem of how to present the work of this famous muralist when murals were by definition made and fixed on site. -I enjoyed checking this out and then went to 53rd and 6th Halal cart for some good lamb over rice.  Nice way to end an early home and bed Friday, I have to say. -If you live somewhere far away you can take Metro North to Grand Central Terminal then walk over here or take the M1, M2, M3 or M4 buses to 53rd street.
I am sure almost everyone is familiar with MOMA. I love the whole free fridays thing, I can't get… Read more »
The MoMa on Fridays is free (not sure for how long)- and it's  one of the best date places in the city! My guy and I enjoyed a wonderful evening here; holding hands, learning more about  art/ artists and finding sophisticated new things to talk about. Pair that with a rooftop dinner, and you've just had the perfect date night. NOTE: The entire museum is amazing, but keep in mind the "big name" artists are on the 4th and 5th floor. Be sure to also check out the Century of the Child exhibit on the top floor. The classic pieces will take you back in time! One more thing, pick up a new coffee table book from the gift shop. They've got wonderful books which allow you to dig deeper into the minds of the greatest artists!
What an amazing place!!! I visited the MOMA to see the Cindy Sherman exhibit, which was excellent.… Read more »
The previous week had me splattered like an urban Pollock painting across these streets....spilling all my inspiration in the down pavement drainage ditch.  Sitting there on the corner of Bowery and God-knows-where, my knees are clacking up against parked car's bumpers and I'm sifting on the ground for my spilled credit cards and ATM receipts.  Thumbing through the plastic mess, I grab a card that had moved to the back leather slot along with those photos we rarely look at and Selective Service passes with the ink worn off.  A woman in distress and cast in bronze looks back at me and I realize I'm holding my Moma membership pass.   So then it was five days later that I was speedwalking down 6th, a scarf around my face and breathing in Nuts 4 Nuts cashew fumes and gazing up at the up above water towers.......me saying "pardon me" to the passing gusts of chill wind shooting uptown into the Park to play a lil' two-hand touch.   There is nothing so glorious as the moment you realize you're in MoMA.....staring past the ticket takers at the sculpture garden and walking up the stairs towards the contemporary art section with wide eyed amazement.  And it's Rothko! And it's Beuys!.......my feet sticking to the floor as if Matthew Barney had set them there with petroleum.  I'm trudging on slowly and clacking my work shoes on linoleum towards suspended helicopters and Euro women in fox fur with headphones on listening intently to John Baldessari rantings.  I'm grasping on to escalators and thumbing through MoMA printed site maps...I have to see this! And this! And that!......leaning in on placards if maybe a little too closely only to see if I can catch a whiff of the canvas DeKooning put brush to.  I'm on such a high and straining my eyes to catch each fold and peak of the impasto style strokes of the neo-Impressionists or standing back respectfully for the pale and fragile palate of Egon Schiele or Otto Dix.  I gingerly run my fingers along the white walls through each room to Ed Ruscha prints and Larry Clark photo ops and I'm kicking about dust balls created only by the thousand eager art seekers milling about all day long.....taking a brief rest to stare out the multi paned window frames opening up to a still active city below with a cobalt lit sky above them which announces a day's end and the museum's closing.  15 minutes to go......and I take the stairs down......to prolong the minutes more until my exit out of this huge cultural space.......grabbing a book or two from the museum shop to get my inspiration back which managed in this time to grab itself out of the gutter and make its way to my studio where it would wait until I returned. And returned. And returned. And returned.
So many famous pieces by famous artists. Great sculpture garden. But it's just SO DAMN BUSY ALL THE TIME. I like to go through museums slowly to see the work but you can't here. It is NOT a relaxing place. plus it's expensive.
I can appreciate art, but I can't say it's something I'm super knowledgeable about.  I often joke that at times, art can get a bit silly while at other times it is downright profound.  Various definitions of art come together in at the Museum of Modern Art.  Located near the fashionable Fifth Avenue in Manhattan (and a short walk from Central Park), Artists featured in the permanent collection include Dali, Picasso, Van Gogh and Giacometti.  The word "Art" here goes from traditional paintings and sculptures to installation pieces (like a helicopter suspended from the ceiling) to film.  After a visit, you really do feel like you've gotten a well rounded look at the various ways art can be interpreted in physical form. The Museum itself is very clean and open.  The idea is for you to focus on the art itself, not the museum's walls and interior.  There is a very organic flow to the structure leading  you from one room to the next, though there really isn't any particular defined order to go in.  My favorite thing to do is wander a bit aimlessly and see what I encounter. There are two restaurants in MoMa, but the crowds get pretty big around lunch time, you're better off eating elsewhere and going to the museum before or after (unless you go on an off hour).   MoMa is one of the jewels of New York City and I'm happy to visit  it now and then and get a bit of culture infusion!
GREAT! museum in NYC. I recommend everyone go and check it out. Truly fantastic. A little pricey, ($25) but worth it. And way nicer than the Guggenheim! Some of the pieces are super weird but that's to be expected in a modern art museum. There's also really not enough space for seating - I wish they would put some benches in the middle of the room so you can sit and enjoy the art. There's so much to be seen - that you get tired! They have a gorgeous garden and a really cool restaurant. Lots of moving exhibits, too. I'll definitely be back.
in haiku form: endless works of art. many floors; found Starry Night. twenty-five dollars.
Ok I will confess. I'm not really a "museum" person. Whenever I go on vacation, I make excuses to not see the local museums because "we have that in New York." The truth is, I don't want to be stuck inside reading tiny placards and bumping into people; I'd rather be walking around learning about a city through the architecture, people, and neighborhoods (IE: street culture) than through its high culture. That being said, I do really love art, especially early 20th century modern art, and my husband has a membership, so I find myself at MoMA frequently. The membership is a great deal, as members can bring up to 5 guests for $5 a piece. If you visit the museum as a group of 4, you're better off getting the membership as it's cheaper than the tickets themselves. The MoMA is a beautiful white modern building with incredibly tall ceilings and curtainwall, and there is an outdoor sculpture garden in the back. The permanent collection is great, with modernist favorites like Picasso and Kandinsky, and the temporary exhibitions get pretty creative. I'm most interested in the architecture/city planning exhibitions, which often show various solutions or upgrades to existing places. A few examples that come to mind are 5 fun options on how to transform NYC's waterways, creating a funicular for Brazilian favela residents, building schools in rural Africa, and most recently, converting foreclosed suburban homes into more energy efficient and useful communities. Some projects are hypothetical, and some have been executed. However, the appeal for the lush in me is the MoMA Nights social event, where the museum stays open later and has a cash bar/DJ in the lobby. You can sit outside in the sculpture garden and have a cocktail, and it's a pretty fun way to spend a Thursday night. MoMA Nights happens the first Thursday of every month, and every Thursday night in the summer.
My love story with MOMA started when I first moved to NYC. I am a fan of the staff, the amazing choices and place. I even wrote them a poem I will share in here: The art of not knowing what is known "A small poem dedicated to MOMA" The art of knowing what is known is like that: First, you get what you know; mix with what you don't know, Then, as in a magical spell you throw it to the world Then, you buy it from soap boxes.
Likes: STARRY NIGHT by Van Gogh has always been one of my favorites so I was ecstatic to actually see it in person.  Too bad peeps kept pushing me left and right to see it too, but I have strong elbows ;)  Salvadore Dali's Perisistence of Memory was also there!!!  I had no idea but it's another one of my favorites.  Other famous works of art by Van Gogh, Picasso, Claude Monet, Andy Warhol, Frieda, etc.  Lots of other cool art I liked but can't remember who painted them.  Majority of what I liked was on the 5th floor.  Cool map of the world with the country's flag making up the country.  Free Target Fridays 4-8pm. Dislikes: So crowded, smells like B.O. on a crowded Friday in areas without strong air conditioning.  The 6th and 4th floor's' special exhibit was ok.  1st floor's stuff was too abstract and weird to me.  One picture looked like a new kind of pokemon.  Another was a fishtank half filled with water and three basketballs...yup that's art.  A bowl of oyster shells was also on display as "art"...  as my brother says, it's the FEELING and EMOTIONS that art illicits from you more than what the art actually is...or he said something along those lines...well that bowl of oysters evoked feelings of seafood and hunger in me.
Loved the Museum of Modern Art! Lots of interesting works along with some works that you learn about in art history class.  There was a kind of creepy, dark exhibit that was going on while I was there. Wish I would have had more time and that the weather was better so I could have explored the outside garden.  Van Gogh's "Starry Night" was cool to see in real life and is the earliest painting I remember learning about in elementary school. There were lots of people in MoMA and it got kind of stuffy, but I would definitely return the next time I visit NYC. The $25 admission fee was steep but I feel I got my money's worth.
A good museum, but not worth the full price, in my opinion. Every New Yorker should come here at some point, but if you're faced with a choice between here and the Metropolitan, I'd suggest the Met, especially if your tastes lean more towards classical pieces with historical significance. Not to say none of the art at the MoMA is significant; fans of contemporary and pop art styles will love it here. They have some STRANGE special exhibits here (usually on the top floor); among what I've seen is nude performance art and clear jars of human bodily fluids on display. A while back there was a Tim Burton exhibit that was too popular for me to get into. They do have a very impressive collection of impressionist paintings, of which I'm a huge fan. One of the most famous being Van Gogh's "Starry Night." And I could sit in front of Monet's "Water Lilies" and be enchanted for hours. Overall, modern art is not to my tastes, but if it's what you're into, you won't be disappointed.
There's not much to add when talking about the MoMa so I will keep it brief. I am a big fan of modern art museums and have been to quite a few. Even then, my visit to the MoMa was a bit like being 'star-struck'. Every step took me to yet another huge name in modern art. Van Gogh, Monet, Gauguin, Kahlo, the list goes on and on. Not to be missed.
I LOVE MUSEUMS! It's a thing for me and when I travel, I always make sure that a museum is in my itinerary if I have any free time. I've been to quite a lot of them and this is a great one. Modern art is usually a little tough for me. I just didn't get so many of the exhibits on offer here at MOMA. "A Wall Pitted By A Single Air Rifle Shot". I mean, really? Another was a collection of cabana canvases that had been repainted, but only the outside white strip. I actually asked the security guard if they were kidding. But then I got to the classics and it was all worth it. Van Gogh's Starry Night and there was almost no crowd so that I could really get right up to it and look at the brushstrokes. And step back from it to simply admire the beauty. I was blown away. Free audio guides are available that address a handful, but not too many of the artworks. Otherwise, the captions are very limited to the name of the piece, the author and the date. Since there is free wi-fi, you can sometimes look up more detail on the work online. But sometimes there just isn't more. And then the Picassos, Warhols, and so many many more. Well worth the $25 entrance fee. Sadly, MOMA has pretty awful hours closing at 5:30 every week day. I was fortunate to be in NYC the first week of the month, when they have a late night on Thursday. But only that one night ever month. Bummer!
I was excited to check out the MOMA but it wasn't my thing.  I thought the MET and AMNH were awesome and thought this place would be on the same level. To me 100 tv monitors lined up isn't artwork.  Plenty of paintings and framed artwork to see but nothing I was drawn to.  I'm glad I took advantage of the free Fridays because it wasn't worth $25 to me.   Free Ticket Friday info: Line up at 5th and 54th I got in line around 2:45 and was 5th in line.  The line became long really quick but getting in goes by quickly.  They let the line start going in at 3:30 instead of 4pm which was cool.
The somewhat nondescript building housing the MoMA reveals nothing of the spacious, modern interior. We got there late, with only an hour to wander the exhibits. Thankfully, the museum has anticipated this and offers suggestions for touring based on time and interest. We stuck to the 4th and 5th floors which house most of the more "well known" works. Did I mention you can take pictures inside? This was a welcomed shock to me as you cannot do so in Dallas. Needless to say, I had to get my picture taken in front of a Monet, a van Gough, a Lichtenstein. Magical! Loss of one star for it being pretty pricey. Perhaps I would have gladly paid $25 if I had more time, but it seemed a bit much. If you know a museum member though, they can get guest tickets for $5. Bargain!
Free on Fridays after 4pm As a cheapskate I don't care that it gets super-crowded around this time. Iconic art work. Loved the Boetti rug collection and the paintings on the 5th floor. I'm not someone that is over enthused by modern art but I still managed to have a great time here. The latte in the cafe is good even though its expensive. The outdoor patio is a great place to hang out when the weather is good.
The Cindy Sherman exhibit was cool and interesting and a little weird, but in a good way.  The Exquisite Corpses exhibit was cool and interesting and a little weird, in a different but still good way.  Check out something else that is a little weird about MOMA but in a perplexing way: I was reserving tickets online (saves you two bucks apiece) the morning of our visit.  When I advanced to the checkout page, they gave me these choices for "title" before my name: Mr Mrs Ms Dr Rev Prof Hon Miss Baron Bro Rabbi Judge Whaa??   Okay, the first four are pretty common.  You could argue against Doctor on egalitarian grounds, but it's pretty entrenched.  Reverend I guess is fairly common.  Professor is a real stretch.  But Honorable?  Seriously?  If Mayor Bloomberg is going to visit the museum, I would bet that he doesn't need to buy a ticket. Miss?  We already have Ms, why do we need Miss?  What is the difference?  I grew up in the late 80s and 90s, way post-Gloria Steinem, so this distinction is lost on me.  This slot could have been given to another more deserving title, because as we can see below, once you start including so many goofy ones, you have to leave a bunch out too. Baron???  Good grief.  How many British lords are visiting the museum and must have their egos assuaged?  Why not Senator?  There must be at least as many U.S. Senators coming to the museum as barons.  But why only Baron?  These guys are the lowest rung on the British order of nobility; how come you excluded the viscounts, earls, marquesses, and dukes?  Not to mention the Queen!  Or perhaps you figure that the lowly baron can book his own ticket but the other ranks would have lackeys to do it for them?  And why only Barons--a British title--but not the Continental equivalent, Count?  There is either major discrimination or egregious oversight going on here. Brother, hmm.  Okay, let's give some respect to all the monks out there.  They do good work.  Wait, do we still have monks?  If we do, don't they all live in drafty towers in Europe?  Are they interested in Modern Art?  And even if they were, would we really want them coming to the museum in those smelly robes?  Well, maybe if they brought some of that delicious ale that they brew.  Okay, the monks are welcome, but what about nuns?  I see a lot more nuns than monks walking around.  No Sister title?  Curious. Rabbi. Okay, that's fine; if you have Reverend, you should have Rabbi.  But what about Imam?  What about Lama and Yogi and Swami and Guru?  New York is a melting pot; once you start adding religious categories you had better make sure to cover all your bases.  The Catholics, Protestants,and Eastern Orthodox are all content to cram themselves under "Reverend" but you can't expect the Asian religionists to do the same. And finally, Judge.  Now we have descended into the ridiculous.  Judge is barely a title:  it's really just a job.  And like barons, there can't be that many of them.  Sure, judges are important and deserve respect, but why cater to this one specific group and leave out Plumber, Teacher, Fireman, Editor, Stockbroker, Indian Chief, Pedicab Driver, Submarine Torpedo Technician, Cubicle Drone, Professional Conspiracy Theorist, Cosmonaut, etc etc etc? Just stick to Mr, Mrs, and Ms and you cover everyone without excluding anyone.  Then I wouldn't have to spend the following three weeks letting this drive me crazy.
Museum of Modern Art is FREE Every Friday Night from 4-8pm sponsored by Target! If you enter & don't get a ticket go to the opposite side of the museum & go Outside & wait in Line!  They should close that entrance or give out tickets that side too.   Line up at 5th & 54th!!   Very crowded! Diego Rivera 2nd Fl exhibit thru May 14, 2012 - No photos inside, outside signs ok. Cindy Sherman exhibit seen 3/30/12 worth seeing, No Photos allowed. Don't bring backpack or umbrellas - they have to be checked in - huge waste of time. We only stayed about 1.5hrs, but still worth going.
Went here on a Friday to take advantage of the free price of admission from 4 pm to 8 pm! It was very busy!  It was as expected though.  My sister and I had to get in line outside.  We were each given an admission ticket and we quickly walked in as the line moved very fast.  Once inside we picked up an audio guide.  These things look like a phone and you can enter the number attached to the piece of art and you can listen to a little tutorial/background piece about it.  All you need to do is leave your ID at the audio checkout desk.  You can have it back when you return the guide. My sister and I instinctively went up to the highest floor where all the Van Goghs, Monets, Cezanne's are located.  The Diego Revieras are located lower down.  We almost missed it because we felt like the lower we went down the less inspired we were. It was free!  I'm not complaining.  Yes, it's annoying that there were so many people but if I wanted to do something about it I'd pay the admission and go another time.
Modern Art = MoMA Fantastic. Exhibits are regularly changing so there's always something new and exciting. Be prepared to walk a lot! It's 6 floors of all kinds of modern art. Don't miss the special exhibition on 6th floor. After, go across the street to the MoMA design store! A must-see to complete your MoMa experience. $12 with valid student ID. Free on Friday's
This place is a must-see if you are in Manhattan. It's the first thing I did here in NYC where my parents now live. If you are into modern art, this is the place for you. It's- I believe- about 6 floors of just amazing artwork and displays. Very spacious and there are some famous artworks there, like the "Starry Night" and drip paintings by Pollock. There's Warhol and Lichtenstein, plus other crazy awesome works.   If you live in the area and want to become a member, I believe it is about $50 for a student, $60 for adults- at least that's what they told us when my mom asked how much it would cost her to be a member compared to how much I would have to pay to be a member. But the great thing about membership is that it comes with discounts for shops, restaurants, but also five $5 guest tickets!!! I wasn't sure if I was going to go to MoMa that many times, so I just bought the student ticket- $11. Thank you, ID card. I will be back to take my friends. This place ROCKS my SOCKS! Warning- I feel like the museum closes pretty early. My mom and I went there and barely finished seeing everything before things started closing around. If you take your time viewing artwork, I'd go there earlier in the day. Another thing- on Fridays, I believe entrance is free after 4PM till 8... But this apparently attracts a TON of people so just expect a crowd if you are planning to do this!
Came here for Target's Summer Friday, where everyone can get in for free after 4pm. I love museums, but I especially love MoMa! If you are going to come here, you must spend a little more on the special exhibits! Cindy Sherman was the special for summer of 2012. She is a pure genius! Love her works of art! Besides the special exhibits, everything else was amazing as well. Definitely one of the museums that is worth paying for the admission! They also have one of the biggest and most interesting gift shops. MoMa is definitely a must see of New York.
Pretty fucking cool.  I really enjoyed the Superflat exhibition, being a big ol' nerd. Not much else to say about a place that houses Van Gogh's Starry Night.
This is my favorite museum. There's nothing to review, this is a museum for everyone. CUNY students get free admission! Get stoned in the park and look at Modern art. You tell me a better way to spend a hot, lazy Wednesday afternoon.
Do you know how it feels to fall in love with a museum? I DO! And I'm pretty sure I've fallen in love with this one. I love me some modern art and this is by far my favorite modern art museum ever. Stand aside SF MoMA and LACMA, I need my NY MoMA fix! It is one of the museums in NY that isn't free everyday. $25 for general admission and $12 for students. So bring your student IDs! It is free Friday nights between 4-8pm, definitely planning for that next time I'm back in NY. Sigh so many amazing works of art here! 5 floors of art! Van Gogh, Monet, Gustav Klimt, Diego Rivera, Basquiat, Warhol, Duchamp, Seurat, Picasso, Dali... and so many others. It's absolutely mind-blowing. You hear that explosion? Yeah, my mind's still exploding in CA weeks after going to the MoMA. I love how they included a section on industrial and product design. It is NYC after all and it's all inclusive, but I don't get to see that kind of design too often and I was grateful for it.   Photographs (no flash) are allowed in most areas, just not the special exhibits and the Diego Rivera. So you can definitely revisit those images when you get home. I am a bit sad that photographs aren't allowed in the Diego Rivera exhibit because it was pretty amazing. I especially loved his mural of the NYC skyline in development juxtaposed with the tired, sleeping workers who were building the skyline. So deep and amazingly beautiful! Sigh! Time for me to book another ticket so I can come back and visit the MoMA!
I wasn't overly impressed by this place. I enjoyed seeing the different exhibits for the most part but I thought that it was a bit expensive. Some of the work here can be pretty abstract and I felt like I couldn't appreciate it the way that I could the art at the Met. That's not to say that there aren't awesome works in here and this place absolutely warrants a visit if you haven't been there before.
Modern Art! Walks beside me Modern Art! Makes me party Modern Art! Puts my faith in God and Man! I heart art, and modern art even moreso. The Tate Modern was one of my favorite museums in Europe, and MoMA is right up there with it. Buy your tix online and save a few bucks, although the lines move very quickly. There's a free coat check, too. The explanations of MoMA's collection on the free tour headset, were great to help me understand things like Pollock's splatter technique, the post-war period, and hearing Jeff Koons talk about the ReadyMade being about "acceptance of yourself, and acceptance of the World around you", was downright enlightening. The Diego Rivera mural exhibit was well done. The murals were a lot smaller than I pictured. The exhibit was very informative. One of my favorite pieces in the MoMA regular collection was an ever-changing lighted wall piece by Leo Villareal (see pics). It was a computer generated LED piece, that changed colors slowly. It was hidden away on the 2nd floor, and that made it even better. MoMA is big, and also very popular; so I'm definitely going to have to come back. And the gift shop is good for unique gifts. Cindy Sherman starts Feb. 26! Really wish I could be in NYC for that.
Personally, I love hanging out in the outdoor sculpture garden (spring and summer, of course). People watching here is fantastic. Live in the area? Get a membership with your roomies or significant other and come to hang, watch free movies, and get some art/culture education. The exhibits are cool, and it's awesome to walk around, even only for 30 minutes. Pick a floor, pick a room, and spend some time really getting to know the pieces. It's so much better taking it in a little at a time, than trying to squeeze every inch of the museum in, in a day. So if you can afford it, price and time wise, then make the effort and do it!
I really love the MOMA. There are classic works, brilliantly curated, with a stellar film series. I have a masters' in art history and love coming here. One note though. I tried to take my mom for the first time during a free Friday (4-8) PM and while it is great that they have these events, it was total chaos. Lines all the way around the block and inside the museum. We gave up and left. If you want to be able to view and contemplate the art, support the museum and pay to get in.
FUN museum, extensive collection with iconic works, engrossing even if you don't think you like modern art. The paper scanning in the lobby is a nice touch too.
As my tribute to PlatformYT and "sh*t fashion girls say" (totes amaze!) I'm going to write this entire review in "social media language."  hashtag barewithme.   Okay, so if you're like following my instagram, then you know that MoMA is totes stocked with OBSESSED art.  I die.  If you're my friend on fa-chey book-ey (FB), then you know that my FBPP is of me in front of #andywarholsmarilynmonroe because I'm artsy and MM is one of my Pinterest idols. Duh.  I tumbled about it the other day, saying how chic the museum was #obvs but twitted how packed the museum was sooooo #bridgeandtunnel.  So, I went up to the 5th floor and "liked" an article from the Times on MoMA's new artists because I read #sointheknow and then went back down to the 3rd floor to take a pic of people staring at sculptures.  Hellooooo...capturing the scene!   Then, I camera+ it to change the color to vintage, because I'm supscool, faded out the backdrop, hashtagged something so original like #mylifeissomuchbetterthanyoursbecauseimatahipmuseu­mbitches, to of course post it back on my fa-chey book-ey, instagram, twitter, tumblr, pinterest, & google+. And of course, all my followers liked it.  :) --- And scene.  Remember the days of Friendster, it was so easy back then...
Go here! See beautiful, if not strange, art that you have seen only in textbooks! But beware of the lolly-gaging tourist with the huge camera around his neck, stopping to take a picture of his wife in front of every art piece. I don't understand people who pose in front of pictures, it is weird to me. Van Gogh's "Starry Night" is hung here and you are lucky to peek at it through the throngs of tourists, all waiting their turn for a picture. Beautiful painting but definitely not the best in the collection. Don't miss Andrew Wyeth's "Christina's World" hung obscurely by an elevator bank, and Barnett Newman's "Vir Heroicus Sublimus", both amazing works. There is one Pollock, a De Kooning, a Rothko, and a Still that you should scout out as well.Take a break in the beautiful sculpture garden courtyard and sip on some wine or beer while you enjoy the breathtaking sculptures.
One of the best museum experiences I've ever had, and I've been to many all over the world. MOMA went way beyond my expectations. The special exhibit was an extensive Cindy Sherman retrospective--WOW, excellent. And the permanent exhibits were well done, with plenty of descriptive info between the wall plaques and the available audio devices. We downloaded the MOMA app to our iPhones and used their free WiFi and that worked out great. Bring your smartphone and earbuds! Then go by item number which is on many pieces and areas. Must see: The Claude Monet room! Water Lilies! The volunteers at the info desk were super helpful. Check in with them before you start your rounds. The only downside is that the admission seems excessive. So much to see, but could only take a couple hours before overload. Then finished off in the sculpture garden, which was nice but a bit disappointing, but I'm now spoiled by Seattle's new waterfront sculpture garden free public park.
Modern/contemporary art at its finest, with lots of rotations. Everything's fresh, everything's explained while still opening interpretations. Ain't that awesome? Just make sure you know how to fight the crowd and hold your breath when someone exceptionally smelly comes into the room. Because the odor can travel. Fast. Otherwise, happy art-hunting!
2 stars because I don't usually like modern arts and... entrance fee is expensive. If you like Monet... Dali and weird stuff etc... this is your place. If not, I warn you, you will be pissed after 15 minutes (for wasting your time and money) and the next thing you remember is that you are already at the exit door....
Not a huge fan of modern art, but I do love their contemporary art section and the building design. With a tight budget? go there on free Fridays, but expect a huge crowd devouring art as if it were fast food. Needless to say that most of the Miró, or the Matisse are almost forgotten as crowds are all over the cliché paintings. Leave the backpack home-hostal, it will make your entrance much faster!
The last two times I've been to New York, going to the MOMA was always top priority. The first time was to see the spankin' new space and it is a spectacular space for such great work. The second time was the see the Richard Serra exhibition. OH MY GOD. This was one of the best shows I've been to. This is to be expected since Richard Serra is one of my all-time favorite artists. The pieces were incredible and they way it changes the space is absolutely jaw-dropping. That said, the permanent collection is really stellar and it's borderline surreal to see certain works in person when I've only seen them in book or slides. Just a note: Was it always ok to take pictures in the museum. That strikes me as really no okay. And I've worked in a museum before.
What can I say about MoMA that hasn't already been said...from my own perspective: *One of my favorite museums. *A perfect way to spend a rainy weekend morning. *Start from the top floor and work your way down. *A great collection of Picasso's, a handful of Pollock's, Kooning's, Warhol's, Close's, van Gogh's and sculptures galore. *You'll know when you come across a well-known piece when you see a large crowd. *Don't get within two feet of the art or the curators will hiss at you. *There will be pieces that you don't understand. As well as pieces you know you could do yourself. *Be sure to stop by the museum store on your way out. *Enjoy!
I was really excited to come see Starry Night by Van Gogh, and I was disappointed to find out that it was out of the museum because it is traveling around. :( I think my favorite thing there was on the third floor (i think?) theres like this area that is lit up with yellow lights, which make everyone look like they are black and white..its so cool!! It totally reminded me of Pleasantville. I also liked the cool giant balloon dog sculpture. My bf and I were kind of pressed for time, so we rushed through everything, but I really liked seeing the modern art. Hopefully, one day I'll see Starry Night.
I have mixed feelings regarding a lot of modern art.  Sometimes I can't decide if some artists are geniuses, egotistical attention whores of marginal talent, clever pranksters playing tricks on egghead art critics, or a combination of all of the above.  With that out of the way, let me share my mixed feelings on the Museum of Modern Art. This place has the requisite collection of masterpieces:  Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, Dali's The Persistence of Memory, Pollack's Apeshit #61. The collection is massive and so is the crowd on free friday.  The design of the museum is a bit confusing and it can be hard to navigate.  I was blown away by the Van Gogh exhibit but the crowding limited my time enjoying it.  The photography section covers the myriad types of image production, but again, it was too crowded to really appreciate it. If you are short on money or just in town for a little while, then by all means go on Friday night.  If you live here or come to New York often.  It's worth spending the money to go on a slower day to get the full impact of the exhibitions.
Not being a fan of "modern" art, it's not my favorite. I've been all over the world, and have seen lots of art. While it does house my favorite Dali piece, it's got nothing to the Dali museum in London. Anyway, it's all right, condisering it costs $20. It's a bit outrageous! I went today with a friend for an Ingmar Bergman film, which was odd. Also on the outside walls they were showing a modern silent film by Doug Aitken. That was neat cause we got to walk around the block, looking at the projections on the walls. They made a pretty color projection as well, which made the sky light up a beautiful purple. Was a wonderful NYC nite! It earns another star for the MoMA.
A sleek, albeit modest, modern (surprise!) space that doesn't overshadow the art. There are some great moments to experience wandering through the building where you can capture views of other levels. Some of the finishing details were done very well, but others were not. I think this is more the result of construction quality than design (most specifically, some of the walls look like they need to be refinished, especially near the floor). It's nice to see more of MoMA's collection, and so much space dedicated to architectural work. This is a place I could explore again and again, and despite the price tag I will (get a friend with a membership and get in for $5!). I am an adamant believer in maintaining the affordablity of cultural attractions, so the admission cost to this place was a big turn-off for me in the beginning..
You really start to feel sorry for all the lesser-known artists.  When you stick them in a place filled with Miros, Monets, Magrittes, and Matisses, really, who has time to pay attention to them? To echo all the other reviews, the collection is amazing.  Simply the best conglomeration of big name artists and their major masterpieces in the States.  You'll see Van Gogh's Starry Night, Dali's The Persistence of Memory, and Picasso's Demoiselles D'Avignon, among many other iconic pieces of artwork.  The sheer number of these eye-poppers beats the socks off of Chicago's Art Institute, the Guggenheim, SF's MOMA, and even the Musee D'Orsay, if you consider that modern enough. All you have to do is spend time on the 5th floor.  That's where all the big Impressionist and Surrealist works are.  It'll take a couple hours, even the confusing layout of the galleries.  The 4th floor has more abstract stuff like Pollock, Rothko, and large pieces of blank canvas that happen to be painted in various colors.  The lower floors?  I don't even know ...
The MOMA day of my trip to NY was the best ever!  Great people watching too!  I took my Ipod and listened to my favorite music as I browsed.   Latin Jazz and Picasso.  Awesome!   Salvador Dali and Georgio de Chirico while listening to Pink Floyd. Van Gogh and Morrissey.   Try it!
I made a stop here while in NY last week to kill some time before my flight.  I'm not really an art fan but hey this is the world famous MOMA and if I hated it, I could still say I went to MOMA in New York!! Admission fee was $20, a bit more than I expected.  At least I am supporting the arts... how did i know? I actually got a physical ticket!!! (hahaaha inside joke) Everytime I look at abstract art I wonder.  I wonder what's the difference between the art I see here and the art I did in kindergarten.  Excuse me for not knowing many of these artists or pieces but I saw a piece where it was just pencil scribbles and splatters of paint on a piece of paper.  Huh?  I guess it hurts me not being a art lover.  I'm sure most art lovers will appreciate it. Recognized a few pieces here, Van Gogh's Starry Night, Andy Warhol's Marilyn Monroe and Soup can paintings and a few more.  It's kind of surreal actually finally seeing it in person.  Too bad i didn't bring my camera. The museum is 6 floors and the architecture is pretty cool and modern.  High ceilings with huge skylights that really make the place nice and bright.  MOMA draws big crowds but it didn't seem too crowded and was very easy to walk around.  The bad thing about this place is that it was hard for me to know exactly where I was and what room I was walking into.  I believe there were just dead end rooms where you couldn't exit any other way than the way you came in. Overall, even though I'm not an art lover, I enjoyed this place and spent 2 hours here.  Open up your mind and if you don't like it, hey at least you tried it !!
Yay ! I love MOMA much more so than the MET... The Dali exhibition was awesome ! Highly recommend becoming a member... it's such a deal ! also gets discounts at the store(s) ! The coolest thing was being able to take (non- flash.. so steady hands !) photographs which I think totally enhances the whole experience
It's a really great museum with lots of good pieces. They have lots of interesting exhibits too, like their past one on Dali and film. It's New York so this place is going to be very crowded but all the amazing pieces still makes it worth it. This is one of the best museums in New York, much better than the Guggenheim (although it depends on what they're showing at the Guggenheim). Do go early and plan to spend a couple of hours here.
For years, I have been looking for some type of public building (let's call it a "museum") that would display works of art, preferrably from the Modern Era, organized in gallery-like rooms, all in one convenient location for me to enjoy. Imagine my delight when I came to MoMA for the first time!  MoMA really is everything I could ask for in a museum.   The collection is the authority of Western Modernism with all the necessary names in art that everyone knows.  Allow me to name drop: Picasso, van Gogh, Dalí, Monet, Matisse, Cézanne, Warhol, Pollock, Mondrian, Gauguin, Rousseau, O'Keeffe, and Hopper, just to name some of the stars.  Because of MoMA's influence, these names are now a requirement in any respectable museum's collection.   But MoMA trumps them all with some of the most widely recognized pieces of art in the world.  I always enjoy taking newcomers to the museum and seeing their reaction to seeing pieces like van Gogh's "The Starry Night", Dalí's "The Persistance of Memory", and Monet's gargantuan "Water Lilies".  Perhaps this is MoMA's greatest strength; a collection everyone knows before they even arrive, but the photography, architecture, and design galleries also deserve the same recognition. During the warmer months, be sure to enjoy the courtyard after taking in all of the celebrity art.  This may not interest many, but MoMA also has one of the best gift stores anywhere.   While the $20 admission is one of the steepest in the city, you won't remember or care after you leave.  If I had to suggest one museum to visit in New York,  it would be MoMA all the way.
One of the better museums I've been to. It's quite big (six floors and a "garden" with larger metal art pieces and also a theater downstairs) and you can find yourself spending hours there... unless you're starving because if you're starving you rush through the art so you could find a place to eat outside of the museum (I've never eaten in their cafeteria). This is a great place to bring a date. Even if they don't like art. There's are so many pieces you could start a conversation over. I wish they had more light fixture art by Dan Flavin. The last time I went I remember that Picasso had vomited in almost every room I walked into (meaning there were tons of pieces by Picasso). It's expensive but if you're a student (or look like a student), just ask for a student ticket and it's a few dollars cheaper. The last time I told them I didn't have my ID and they gave me the student price anyway, but then again I am 4'9''. I wouldn't bother coming here on those Target Friday's or the weekend. I have no patience for crowds.
Your MoMA Went To Collage (a haiku review) Child-like with, not in the Pollack.  Metro Line's pressure forces salty streams.
This is my #1 Sunday afternoon in the city. If your too early to check into your hotel.... Go to the MoMA and because they won't let bags in they hold yours while you wonder. It's nice to get off a plane and walk for a bit (without the bags) grab a light lunch and be enlightened by masters.
$20 = quite expensive for a non-student, but students get in for $12.  MOMA has always been one of my favorite places for inspiration. From geometrical to very colorful. The showcases and special exhibits of past great artists always draw me back to MoMa. Dali is such a generic artist but I love him no matter what people call him. He is who inspired me to keep writing.  I have been to the museum about five times in ten years. I am long overdue for another visit. Target stores offer FREE admisson on Friday nights from 4pm-8pm.  :)
Went to MoMA this Monday, which was a holiday.  It was my frist venture to this museum.  It is located on 5th/53rd, which is a great location.   If you are a modern art fan you will love this museum.  The building itself is beautiful, all stark white and multi leveled with windows to showcase the gardens. Every floor had an interesting architectural detail..be it the hanging walk through/bridge, wide open windows, half walls...etc.  I was ecstatic to see Starry Night, Van Gogh; Marilyn Monroe, Andy Warhol; and a few Picasso's that I love.  You will see so many great and influential artists works.  Their store is across the street and is a great store if you like furnishings for your home.  A lot of Alessi there, if that is your thing. Side note: I was gifted tickets to Tim Burton's exhibit...which was amazing. We were there on a holiday and it was pretty busy. We've heard that the tickets can sell out fast to this exhbit, so if you are interested call ahead.  About this exhibit:  If you are a fan of Tim Burton's art, films, cartoons, or anything Tim Burton, you will love the exhibit.  It's on show until April.   I loved the entire exhibit, but my favorite part was to read all his letters to various people..whether it had been a book publisher, his poems, notes to his movie staff, or just personal notes.  Glad to see that he has terrible handwriting...I don't feel so bad about mine anymore.  ;)
It's an independent modern world in the very centre of New York City. I recommend it for everyone who loves Modern Art. A beautiful, unique and stylish place with lots of innovations, exhibitions and educational programs. Now numbering about 150,000 objects in areas of modern and contemporary art. It's 6 flours of artistic and spiritual pleasure. You can spend a whole week there and every day you will open new things to yourself. It's a great success for NY and a huge pride for it's founders. I love this place and every time when I come to NY I certainly go there.
Maybe it's because I picked Good Friday to go. Maybe it's because I don't like kids. Maybe it's because I follow museum etiquette and others don't. But my experience was 4 stars and it probably would have been 3 but I get the corporate deal GRATIS courtesy of BNY MELLON. It was a zoo and I can appreciate the fact that parents want to show their kids some culture but this place was way to crowded. I saw a sign somewhere that said no more than 735 persons allowed by law im going to go off on a limb and say that there were probably 15,000.00 people in the museum. Ok... ok... I exaggerate but it's was way over crowded. We decide to just skip to the good stuff on the 5th floor (I am holding up 4 fingers similar to bro man, Martins' sort of slow neighbor) Monet, Van Gough, Picasso just to name a few all jumbled into one amazing space. The layout was easy to navigate and with the exception of rude foreign tourists walking in front of me while I was getting my art on it was an hour well spent. I love this museum but won't ever make the mistake of coming on a holiday weekend again My favorite painting was on display -'Les demoiselles d'Avignon' Picasso was a true master
If you love art, design, or architecture (especially the contemporary variety) you cannot miss a trip to MOMA. You can easily spend an entire day roaming the galleries, shopping in the bookstore, or lunching in the cafe overlooking the sculpture garden. You will see priceless and amazing works of art in person (and yes, it IS different seeing them in person when they are 12 inches from your face). It's a visual feast to treasure. Not being a cheap-ass, I am more inclined to encourage people to ante up the $20 admission and visit when it's not as crowded. The museum opens at 10:30, so roll in around 11 am. If you actually enjoy moshing with the same mob of people in the galleries that you've been fending off all day in the city, definitely stop by on the Free Friday nights. Ugh!
I fell in love with modern art when MOMA moved to Brooklyn during renovations.  A friend dragged me to the Matisse/Picasso exhibit.  I was transfixed by The Guitar Player by Picasso, so much that I was in tears.   Other pieces are interesting and some are not, such as the collection of Americana cutlery.
Yelpers, believe me when I say I've seen my fair share of contemporary and modern art museums. MACBA in Barcelona, MUMOC in Vienna, National Gallery East Building in Washington, DC, the Tate Modern in London, among others. New York MoMA is where it's AT. For real.  Their permanent exhibit is ridic (I particularly like their wide array of Mondrian's, and the whole section on architecture and design).  But the exhibitions that I've been to during the last 2 summers are just unprecedented in my eyes.  Last year, their Richard Serra installation was great, and they had this fantastic political cartoonist (more sketches) install some of his work on the huuuuge atrium wall.  When I returned last week to see "Home Delivery," MoMA didn't disappoint.  From the 6th floor exhibit with small scale models, drawings, photos, etc. to the 54th Street lot with 5 pre-fabricated homes commissioned by modern architectural firms, it was an urban studies student's wet dream. I'm even thinking about ditching my last weekend as a measly intern in DC to go back again. That good. Not to mention that the food in the cafe was great (the best cappuccino this side of the atlantic), if your parents are paying. In short: if you are in New York, you's a fooooool if you don't hit MoMA up and spend (at least) a couple of hours there.
I find it hard to believe that someone like me who loves art and museums was totally enamored during my visit to MoMa recently. The day I went it was so crowded, it was very hard to navigate through each gallery. While I did see many pieces of art that I really enjoyed, some of which I saw just didn't really affect me much. Alot of the work was pre-1950's, so I am not sure what is considered modern about work that is over 50 years old. There were a few pieces I was actually insulted by. Not because the subject matter was offensive, but because it seemed like they were made in a garage. One was a large canvas painted solid red with a brown stripe down the middle, another was a canvas simply painted white. I wonder how long it took to come up with that "concept"? The most WTF piece I saw, by far, was a "sculpture" where someone threw an old set of window blinds on the floor in a crumpled mess. Honey that's not art, that's called throwing sh*t on the floor. Another thing that really annoyed me was this never ending entourage of tourist blocking most of the artwork and photographing everything. I was really annoyed by that, more so than the overcrowding and the unnecessary screaming kids here and there. I mean really is an art museum a great place to bring a whining,screaming kid, who's only art references are Blue's Clues, Sesame Street, or Barney? I am glad I got a free pass to go, because if I shelled out $20 for this experience, I would have been even more irate. It's not that I expect a museum to be empty, I just like it to be less crowded and not so loud. It's hard to really enjoy the finer points of a piece of art when you're being shoved everywhere and kids are screaming at the top of their lungs.
This museum is quite different from the Met is that many of the works will be by artists that the average art museum visitor hasn't heard of. They do have Picasso and Van Gogh paintings, but most of the museum felt to me more like the place you go to see works by the big names in contemporary art.
I went for the first time recently and got in free since it was free Friday's.  I spent 2 hours walking around which was about the right amount of time before over saturation was going to kick in for me. I loved the Warhol and cubism and even got a chance to see a temporary installation of some really neat polish posters 1945-89. I'd say go.  The crowd that was there because it was free didn't bother me personally.  In fact I thought it was neat to see so many people just soaking in art.  Such a rare experience. A walk through time square after felt like an extension of the museum as the lights and advertisements seemed to be the the most recent chapter in the history of modern art.
Very impressive collection of art. Some iconic pieces. Yes, there are crappy works that stretch the boundaries of the definition of art, but that's not MoMA/s fault. The blame for that falls on our society. Thank you, Target, for free admission Fridays from 4 pm til close at 8.
I spent half my life growing up at this Museum (the other half was spent at the Met and at Central Park). My favorite impressionist painters are to be found here, and 'Starry, Starry Night' by Van Gogh is on permanent exhibit here (except when it travels to other museums). Check out the sculpture Garden and also the films.   I am thinking of getting a yearly membership just to support the museum, but the 'Friday nights after 4PM free' is  a great deal.
I made the mistake of going on a Free Friday! I love, love, love Modern Art, but my view was tainted by hordes of people. I'll pay next time and give an updated review, because the rant would be ugly, and I'm sure all Germans are not cheap.
MOMA is free on Fridays 4-8, which is the perfect pre-date date for a Friday night.  Plus the free fridays bring out all the cool people.  Most of the time it's a hefty $20. MOMA is full of mind expanding goodness, and plenty of stimulating visual goodness.  Sadly I'm lucky if I make it here more than once a year.  Is this the "above 14th street syndrome" that people talk about?
MOMA is fantastic for a variety of reasons 1) small enough you can go through the whole thing or the majority of it in about an hour or two. 2) has all the greats and not nearly as overwhelming as the Met has the tendency to be 3) close to my apartment! Also love the random furniture exhibit thats a permanent there.
I'm not a fan of modern art. But I love this museum. I went here when admission was free so there were a lot of people. But that made the atmosphere less.. for the lack of a better term: hoity toity. I think they still do free admission once a week so check the website as to when that is and come early. Lines can be pretty long.
I take advantage of any museums with free admission. I was so excited that Friday has free admission, courtesy of Target. Whee! The line to get into MOMA was long, but the line was moving. Unfortunately, everyone with large backpacks had to check their bags. It took 20 minutes to go through the check in line. Note: tipping is not permitted to the coat people. There were so many levels of artwork to see. It was so much fun! I saw the real Van Gough painting of "Starry Night." WooHoo! My sister tried to see the painting in Europe to find out that the real painting is in NYC. You could easily spend hours and hours looking at everything. My husband and I looked through most of the artwork within 2 hours. Just be patient with the crowds. It's all about the artwork. Enjoy!
My boys (4 & 6) were challenged by it, I was bummed by that--my son is a good artist too.  My eldest son wasn't impressed by Picasso.  I don't know why they redesigned and remodeled it, but feels like the same place to me honestly, they didn't ruin it.  This is a great place.  I just wish it wasn't so crowded Friday night when it's pay what you want, and that they had other nights, so if you work late on Friday you could go. One of my favorite paintings I saw here.  It was The Indifference of Sisyphus.  He was skipping up the paisley mountain, devil may care.  I think of that painting every day.  And then there's all that other awesome stuff.  Cool place, hope my children can get into it later.  I think I just have to keep going and going.
Just awesome. I could easily spend several days in there, and if I was living in NY, I would definitely buy a membership. Can't wait to go back, and I am definitely envious of everyone who can just walk in there as often as they want.
Warning: You will not get to see the entire museum in one visit! Ok with that said...go here...it has some amazing exhibitions, collections and works of art. An upcoming exhibition on music looks pretty cool, and it runs from August 13, 2008 to Jan 5, 2009. Here is an official description: "In the 1960s, the decade that saw astronauts land on the moon, artists were likewise seeking to expand boundaries of time and space and to have new experiences. At the same time, portable video equipment reached the consumer market--suddenly simultaneity and "now," the present and the past, became content. Musicians led the way in developing new working methods, and music was at the forefront of interdisciplinary experimentation during the early days of media art. This exhibition looks at the dynamic connections that occurred from the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s with a display of early media works by Nam June Paik, Bruce Nauman, Steve Reich, Joan Jonas, Yoko Ono, Laurie Anderson, and David Bowie presented alongside related drawings, prints, and photographs by John Cage, Jack Smith, Ray Johnson, and others." Now that to me sounds like a great way to spend an autumn Sunday in the city. I will check that out for sure in September!
I knew nothing about the Art world, this place opened my eyes - a little bit. Isn't that what museums should do? Thank you, Moma :) Go on Thursdays - late hours, live DJ and a bar! (Check Moma's site for details) * Now, the security people are like really, really aggressive. They should find jobs at McDonlad's or something. This is MOMA, you little fat kids! Okay? This is my story: They allow photography as long as you don't flash. I was walking around with this big professional-grade camera, and whenever I entered an exhibit, those McDonald'sers would literally follow me around and stare the daylight out of me (and my friend), you know, just to make sure I'm not hurting anyone. They forget to ask me if I'd like to supersize that. This certainly made me enjoy my visit a bit less :(
I have very mixed feelings about modern art.  On one hand, I can see how even the masterpieces of the Renaissance were considered "modern" at one time.  On the other hand, I wonder how some artists can decide to vomit all over a canvas and call it an honest effort in art.  That's just me.  Conservative with some things (like...art), fah-laaaaaaming liberal with others. As long as I've been in New York, I've never had the urge to visit the MoMA, until a dear friend came to visit and really wanted to go.  Then I had the obligation.  It would be silly to tell you my opinion on every piece, but needless to say, I had low expectations.  And then they went up, and up....until I had neutral expectations.  And it isn't going to get better than that for me.  For those who are inclined to modern art, I can see how this museum is wonderful.  There is a vast collection spanning from Impressionism to just about yesterday.   Everyone has their favorite piece in any museum, and I've definitely found mine.  "Blue Monochrome" by Yves Klein.  What is it? Canvas painted a single shade of blue.  I know it sounds stupid.  But in truth, it is the most beautiful shade of blue I've ever seen.  The painting positively glows!  I had to see it twice.  No, three times. Anyway, in conclusion, this is a surprisingly good museum, if you have the mindset.  I never noticed anything wrong with the layout, but I was probably not paying enough attention to it.
I have been hearing that the Tim Burton exhibit (here until April 26th) is fun to check out so I made my way over to the MoMa. For those wanting to check out his fantastical exhibit, check online to see if tickets for this exhibit are sold out. Most likely, the weekend tickets are sold out and they're also timed tickets meaning you have a certain window of time to check out the exhibit. The MoMa has a coat check and a good amount and variety of different works. This is only my second time visiting, but I do enjoy museums and you will truly enjoy the different mediums of work that are displayed here. Although I'm not a big fan of modern art, I look forward in hearing what other featured artists they plan on exhibiting!
Hmm what to write about MoMA...I mean it's the bastion of modern art and quite lovely, but it's best feature is its worst downfall.  Overly crowded and generally sold out when it comes to special exhibits (eh hem Tim Burton), the MoMA is required on your bucket list of cool.  But the flipside of that is that you can't really enjoy the art at your own pace as you're herded through like cattle to avoid fire emergencies. However, the gift shop is to die for, considering I want to buy almost everything in there.
I've only shopped at the MoMA store in SoHo, and I finally had my first experience at the actual MoMA museum.  It was crowded for a Sunday afternoon and I came 45 minutes before it closed, but I managed to go through 4 out of 6 floors, while also taking in all of the Sweet Violence exhibit.  I would really love to visit the museum again when I have more time...  this is definitely one of those museums where I can go over and over again and not get bored of.
Great museum if you can go on fridays when its free thanks to target then go for it. 20$ admission,went on presidents day. Went at 11am and there was way too many people there. Couldnt go to tim burtons exhibit b/c the next oepning was at 3pm.
Its MOMA! Its a must! I would have given it a 5star but I got kicked out because it was closing time and didn't get a chance to see the last two floors....nar. Warning for those who don't like modern modern art, this is not the museum for you....
There is sooo much to see! I think my favorites are on floors 3 and 4. And I love the Design Store! Not much to say, it's something that you have to experience and judge for yourself! Tip: Free admission to the museum with $50+ purchase from the MoMA Store on Spring St.
First time back since the expansion, the garden area is a lot larger now and the atrium is a beautiful space, I thought after all that time and money they might  have looked at reimagining the art spaces - standard white boxes. However even more impressive overall aftter the extension
I'd probably be even more annoyed if MOMA weren't crowded!  So come in droves.  I'll work my way in and around the masses of art-loving (or at least art-looking-at) humanity.   On my previous visit, I fell in love with the Martin Puryear exhibit (oh the joy it has brought me in these months just thinking about it).  The Matisses and Picassos are phenomenal.
I liked MoMA, and it'd everything people say it is - amazing and wonderful and all that - but I'm only giving it four stars because I think it has SO MUCH space to fill with what is really almost a niche topic in art (cool, but still a small fraction of the art world), that it doesn't always do a great job of culling less-worthy items from the galleries.  If they had less space, it might force them to make more discerning decisions about what they have on display. That said, everyone with even a passing interest in contemporary art should pay a visit when they have a chance - it is that kind of place.
I went back to MoMA this weekend to celebrate my friend's birthday. (Note to self: do this for your own birthday next year. A great idea!) Never having made it to the top two floors, I was blown away by the paintings collection on floors four and five. I made a resolution to visit MoMA at least once a year. You just can't live in NYC and not experience the beauty and sheer breadth of art available to you at an affordable price. I question some of the special exhibitions but invite anyone anytime to accompany me to MoMA to pretend like they understand what's going on.
I love this museum. I think. It's an internal battle. The museum has an amazing variety of what modern art is from painting/photography, to furniture design, to installation work to video/performance. Good job. Now, the big name caliber of artists are great, but sometimes they pick ones that are about spectacle over content. I get this museum is for the masses, but art should challenge some form of thought. Also, yes, of course the lack of less established artists, but it's a modern art museum as opposed to say the New Museum which should be more interested in that. And Song Dong is okay (I guess), but up the ante on the non-U.S. based artists. The courtyard is fantastic, it's peaceful and has enough sights for tourists to kill while still being tranquil. A good representation of the various degrees of modern art. As for the structure, on the one hand, the architecture in leading to the next exhibit will work out but sometimes there are parts where I feel like I'm getting trapped somewhere with no escape. Dead ends. And buying tickets for special events can suck. No, I am not talking about Tim Burton. But it does. It's painful. I just wish I were a Cooper student that gets a better discount where any other school does not. Grr. Damn expensive museum. Just such an integral part of New York's history from Yayoi Kusama's protest performance in front of the museum to Marina Abramovic's...well, anything.
In my opinion, the MoMA is a definite DO on a trip to NYC.  Even if art isn't your thing, you will find something at the MoMA worth your visit. The building is open, spacious, and is the perfect backdrop for viewing the great variety of art on display.  I particularly enjoyed the photographs by Boris Mikhailov (on through September), the film exhibit 'Images of War' by Harun Farocki, and of course, the classics on the upper floors.  I was especially transfixed by Monet's 'Water Lilies' works which are displayed in a stunning way. The museum is easy to move around if you have children or are in a group.  There are several cafes and a lovely outdoor sculpture garden.   Also, thank you to the MoMA for participating in the NEA/Blue Star Families program that offers free military admission for the summer!!!
$20 per adult is quite pricey, so if you qualify for any discounts (student, corporate, etc), definitely take full advantage it. The building can get crowded, and the spacial design of the museum makes it feel even more so. The permanent pieces - Rousseau, Gauguin, Warhol, etc -  are always a joy to see. Would have loved to see more Van Goghs. The modern furniture section is interest to see, although some items do remind me of a modded ikea piece They do offer a free audio guide. They're bulky in the early 90s cellphone way and they don't come with headphones.
Avoid Target free day ! ! ! Tons of people, looooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooong line. It almost gave me a heart attack. I had unavoidable(but pleasant) conversation with one of staffs there on the street, not moving, for more than 30 mins. Paying general admission worth more than wasting your beautiful life on the street, waiting for one step forward :) Don't  waste it ! As a painter, I enjoyed every moment while I was breathing there. I could learn many things from many of  exhibition. It's an interesting place for sure. However, it gave me an impression of just a 'place', not a museum.  I cannot figure out what exactly made me feel this way, but i've never left a museum as early as I did here. Still, it's a fun place.
POSITIVE beautiful space 5 Beckmanns designated space for temporary exhibits free on friday evenings great variety of modern art NEGATIVE extremely crowded on a rainy friday WILL I RETURN? for sure
I loved MOMA! We came LATE on a Friday, about only 30 minutes prior to closing, but tried to see as much as we could. It's free on Friday nights from (4 - 8 PM). Surprisingly, it was busy, but not as busy as I would have imagined. I tried to see as much as I could in the time allotted, but I really enjoyed the installations and artwork. I'd love to go back to complete my tour.
So after our visit to Statue of Liberty, my bf & I head to MOMA on a Friday afternoon. We arrived there exactly at 4pm, and there was a really long line... Target Free Fridays from 4pm to 8pm.  I get a bit discouraged as we had only 2 hours to visit and was worried we would not be able to go in... I really wanted to see the Van Gogh Exhibit.  We wait in line anyways to see if we could get in... Amazing enough, the line was moving fairly quickily (only a 5 min wait). Once we reached the door, they hand us museum and a timed entrance ticket for the Van Gogh exhibit at 5:30pm! Awesome... still within our time frame!!! Best highlists: 1)  Claude Monet's Water Lillies (can't believe how large this piece is!) 2)  Jackson Pollack 3)  Salvador Dali 4)  Andy Warhol 's Campbell Soup Cans I was a little disappointed with the Van Gogh exhibit, since it was rather small, they did not have my favorite piece (Cafe Terrace at Night), and we were not allowed to take any pictures... but Starry Night just as good! Overall a cool museum if you like modern art! If  you want to save yourself $20 bucks, go during Target Free Fridays from 4pm-8pm!
The Museum of Modern Art (aka the MoMA) is a really nice museum; it's very big, is in a great area, has a fantastic coat check system, and occasionally has awesome events and special exhibits (like the Tim Burton exhibit going on now until March). I just cant give it 5 stars for 2 reasons, the first is that I don't like the majority of the work here, it's a lot of BS that I just don't get (I know this is subjective but so is my rating of the place). The other is that admission is a mandatory $20, while most of the great museums are free or suggested, it hurts a bit to pay the full $20. The good thing though is on Fridays from 4-8pm the museum is free (sponsored by Target). The line gets pretty long leading up to 4pm (not sure if the amount of tickets are limited, I do know entry to special exhibits like Tim Burton had a limited amount of tickets), but once 4pm comes around the line is gone in the matter of a couple of minutes.
5 stars for having the gall to have an exhibit of a naked woman tacked to a wall with a bicycle seat like thing between her spread legs.   5 stars for selling out the Tim Burton Exhibit on a Monday Afternoon. Bastards. 5 stars for the Jackson Pollock, Dali, Monet, and other amazing works of art. 1 star for the $20 dollar entrance fee... but I just gave it 5 stars anyway!
Loved this museum.   I came here during my visit to New York on a Monday afternoon.  I forgot that the Met is closed on Mondays, and I was about to be bummed that I wouldn't be able to visit an NYC museum until I thought about the Met.  I hopped on the subway and hightailed it right over.   It's the perfect place to get lost in the wonderful exhibits and be surrounded by creativity.   If this place doesn't inspire you to do something, then I don't know what to say. It also looks like the perfect place for people watching as well.   I thought that the museum would be quieter since it was a Monday, non-holiday and mid-afternoon, but the place was still packed to the brim.   Probably one of my biggest highlights during my trip.
This would get 5 stars if I had actually been able to get into the Van Gogh special exhibit and if they could do something about the throngs of people. Also, the sculpture garden was closed for no real reason. Yes, it was a wind chill of -12 that day, but I was prepared for that. The layout was a little odd and people seemed to accumulate in certain areas (Pollack, Warhol, Picasso, Monet areas). There isn't a good ebb and flow. The selection of art was amazing. Most of my favorites were there but I didn't see any Basquiat. No Basiquiat? In NYC? Weird. Overall, a great museum and it would have gotten more stars if it weren't for the things that were annoying (no van gogh, no sculpture garden and too many people).
Beautiful. This place is a definite stop if you're visiting NYC. Rothko, Picasso, Kahlo, & Pollock, some of my personal favorites. You will spend hours here going through all 5 floors of famous sculptures, paintings, and drawings by modernists.
I'm going to say that as someone involved in the industry, there's a part of me that hates MoMA. But this is the part of me that is saddened by the fact that they have warehouses full of other phenomenal works that we don't ever get to see. And that is irritated at their historical monopoly on defining the modern art canon. But beyond that, it's an amazing experience. I have some advice though. Go early, no matter what day it is, especially if you're interested in the special exhibits. MoMA is, well, a complete tourist trap, and the crowds of people standing in front of your favorite Rauschenberg and posing can be pretty obnoxious. However, if you live in the city, also go fairly often- the permanent collection display does change, and occasionally you have the rare opportunity to see things that may not come out of storage again for years. Do stop and eat at the little cafeteria-style cafe. It's overpriced and all, but take the break. You will need it in order to not feel rushed or exhausted. Also wander through the sculpture garden. It's a great if cramped and overwhelmingly full space. Overall, it's worth the money. What you see is incredible. Just know that you will be seeing it with everyone else who might be in the city for only a short time. There's also a tacky Irish pub across the street which is perfect for a slightly below par glass of wine or beer after your visit. Sometimes the experience of the art is intense enough to require that. Sometimes just the crowds.
MoMa-Mia!!!!! I love Museums and  this a really fun one to visit. Go ahead and escape the Grind of bumping into tourists and dodging crazy cab drivers and go and explore the MoMa for a few hours. There is something for everyone.  Amazing paintings, photos and statues. There are all sorts of odd-ball things on display and the museum's layout is lots of fun to explore. Foreigners must  love museums, I probably walked around for an hour before I heard another person speaking English. Besides the Art, I really enjoyed the Gift Shop --- there are tons of amazing books!!  I will probably end up visiting the MoMa again next time I am in the big NYC!!!
Definitely a must see for contemporary art lovers. It was pretty crowded but we still got to see all the good stuff up close. I was especially thrilled to see my first Gustav Klimt in person! Its hard to say anything that hasnt been said already but I would definitely recommend it!
This doesn't need much of a review: hands-down the best museum I've ever been to; kills everything else. For Christ's sakes, Starry Night was just chillin' between some regular paintings. NBD. They have a wicked collection on floors 6/5, which means you'll recognize a lot of art. if you're the contemplative type, you won't make it through one floor. We booked it and skipped a lot, and made it through 3 floors in 2 hours. I particularly loved the the design stuff on the second floor. Don't mess this up. Just go. Now.
Been here several times in the past.  Great collection of modern art on six floors.  The current de Kooning exhibit is a knockout!
This museum rocks!  I love every thing contemporary about this place; the art, jewelry, furniture, and ideas.   There was a display at one of the upper level rooms where I had wanted to get a closer look inside a displayed car that was roped off.  There was a "Do Not Touch" sign so I leaned over the rope to view the inside of the car.  I was not about to touch the car or anything like that when I heard a guard who took her work seriously admonished me for leaning over the rope.  I liked that she took her job seriously so I was having fun with her.  She kept her 'evil eye' on me as I walked around this car just to make sure I don't touch it. Don't you just love it when people do their job.
This is my second favorite museum in the world, bested only by the Louvre. I'm one of those modern art fans who eschews the faux-intellectualist kitsch that many people imagine when they first think about the genre.  You know the type: the canvas painted in one color with a single white vertical line, the piece of elastic string that's stretched and attached to the wall to make an isosceles triangle.  These things are not art, but you will find them at MoMA. But you will also find wonderful pieces of really interesting, cerebral art that will stimulate your mind and appeal to your senses. The audio tours are offered at no charge at all!  That is a very nice touch, and gives some nice background on some pieces. Taniguchi's redesign is very interesting, but I do have some mixed feelings about it.  It is pretty easy to get disoriented among the galleries on a particular floor, but once you find your way back to the escalator bay, it's a piece of cake.  But the way you can look down to the second floor from the top floor in the main atrium is very, very cool.  There were a couple times when my friends and I mentioned how cool the layout was. It's a mecca of modern art, and if you like such popular works as Dali's The Persistence of Memory or Van Gogh's Starry Night, check this place out and get some new favorites!
I love love you, MOMA, so so much. Why can't you live in Boston with me? Ever since May Museum Month 2007, I laid my hopeful eyes on your spoiled private garden greens in the middle of Manhattan, seen your modern artwork and worked my way through hallway labyrinth. You inspire me to be a better artist, a better dreamer, a better person. I miss you and shall visit soon.
Seriously $20 to get in?  Ugh, I have friends that have memberships so I can get in for $5.  Or you can go on Friday for free if you can bear the crowds. The circulation is decent for the most part within each wing.  It is hard to have excellent circulation when the museum is that huge. I do not like when the large pieces are in the large atrium space, as it takes away from the massiveness of them, and out of the environment they were originally conceived for, but oh well.... The architecture area is okay, a small room, but there are some nice exhibits every now and then.  I do enjoy seeing Dali's close up, it is amazing the detail that is put into these little masterpieces. The restrooms are rather nice, private stalls that keep the design ideas from the rest of the spaces.  They are cleaned and stocked often, 4 Flushes.
I've seen the Louvre, British Museum, many of the Smithsonians, and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and others, but I'm by no means a museum snob. So when visiting a friend in NY, I knew I'd be pretty pleased with almost any museum we picked. Given that the Met is closed on Mondays, we picked MoMA for the day. Good choice. We arrived a little late in the day, and had no real plan, but just grabbed an exhibitions guide and started on the 1st floor of exhibits. The first two were Looking at Music 3.0, a series of album covers, prints, and videos devoted to 80's and 90's NY music; and a room full of disassembled computers and eerie/somewhat disturbing computer and machine manuals with phrases like "MAKE ME A BODY" written on them. My friend found it particularly funny that you could listen to the Wu-Tang clan and then walk just 10 feet into the next room to find an artist's manifestation of metaphysical meltdown. Though this progression was a bit strange, these first rooms exemplified the museum's diversity and volume of modern art. Though I don't even pretend to understand the artistic merit or thought behind blank canvases or pieces of masking tape glued to paper, some of the pieces really did surprise me-- in a good way. Among my favorite exhibits were Building Collections: Recent Acquisitions of Architecture, the font/typeface exhibit, and the pointillism and impressionism collections (Starry Night/general Van Gogh cliche excitement). Other highlights were the Pictures by Women: A History of Modern Photography and the Picasso Guitars. The museum itself has a sweet design, and though it was busy with tourists from seemingly everywhere, it was never a problem or too crowded at any point. We were also pleasantly surprised by the $12 student price, which saved us $8 off the regular adult admission. A great museum for all audiences. If I'm ever in NY again I'll probably be going back.
I have very mixed feelings about MoMA.  Here, the best and worst of The Modern (what snotty old school New Yorkers call it). 5 Stars: The collection and exhibitions.  The new building is large enough that it can accommodate much expanded contemporary and photography collections, and your basic Matisses, Cezannes and Pollocks too.  There is something for everyone, whether it is your first visit or your fiftieth, whether you're visiting for 30 minutes or 5 hours.   The first time you go, you see the permanent collection and it sweeps you off your feet, then you go a few more times and you grow tired of those  exalted artists, then you start going for the special exhibitions, and every time you go, one is always bound to please, then maybe one day you go back and take a peek at the permanent collection and then it amazes you again all over like the first time you saw it. 4 Stars: The public areas such as the courtyard and the area outside the contemporary galleries, which has plenty of seating where you can collapse (many people actually lie down) because your feet are about to fall off, and where you can people-watch cool art tourists to your heart's content. 4 Stars:  Great food at the cafes, and they got booze too. 4 Stars: Programs, tours and outreach.  The museum does a great job educating children and adults alike.  If you seek it out, you can spend all your waking moments learning about modern art. 4 Stars: The membership plan.  Only 75 bucks, so you make your money back after 4 visits.  Only 120 bucks for two, and you and a friend can split it if you don't mind getting your MoMA mail at one address. 4 Stars: The shops.  If you're going to be consumerist, might as well buy stuff that is well designed.  MoMA's shops online, in the museum, across the street and elsewhere in the city have really cool functional and nonfunctional stuff for your home and is a great place to get gifts for people who have everything. 1 Star: Navigation in the building is absolutely atrocious.  Didn't MoMA tell  Taniguchi that they'd be expecting 4,357,862 tourists every day?  The escalator is always dangerously overloaded, the elevators take too long to arrive and there aren't enough of them, and I know there's a stairwell in the back of the building, but how the f* do you get there?  It's especially bad at the top of the escalator on the 6th floor, where I was recently literally unable to get off because of the crowd that was stuck there, and I was almost eaten by the escalator, one of the scariest things in the world, that I guess I was right about being afraid of when I was a kid. 1 Star:  The hours and prices.  They are open past 5:30pm only on one night (Friday), which is also the night they offer free admission.  Which means that if you live in New York and have a 9 to 5 job, you'll never be able to go when it's not crowded.  Admission is $20 for adults, which is pretty steep.  It wish that they offered discounted admission for New Yorkers, but I understand that someone has decided that they should go for the more lucrative tourist crowd rather than us euro- and yuan-deprived locals.
I like to think I know a thing or two about art, I know what I like and what I dont like.... I LOVEEEEE this place!  The way it looks, the smell, everything.... So many awesome works of art here, from the ones that make you go "really???" to the ones that make you go "dammnnnn" !   Cost is 20 bucks, but SOOO worth it!  This really got my creative juices going... this museum is a MUST if your ever in NYC. Me likeyyyy ALOT!!!!
Fun Fun! I like this museum because its not too huge! It IS possible to see like every floor. And since im a SUNY student, admission is free. Relaxing way to spend a few hours in the city.
Mmmm, I do love MoMA. This place is a modern art lover's dream: walls of Warhol, partitions of Picasso, and snippets of films, sculptures.... My favorite exhibit was the Dada one that ran for quite some time. There were dozens of Dadaist and Surrealist works all over the museum. It was pure eye candy, it was divine. But, also it was free. Well, there's a catch for this freebie admission --- CUNY and SUNY students (with id) get in for free, just make sure to bypass the admissions line and go to the members desk, and viola, free pass! Not a student? Well, MoMA has free admission on Friday nights from 4-8 pm. But, be prepared to wait in line, so ge there early. Like most museums, the atmosphere is quiet and calming. So, not ringing phones, loud patrons and screaming babies. Unless they're on film, of course.
Really interesting and provocative pieces, coming from someone who's usually bored to death in most museums. This one is awesome
Having perused it during a previous trip, I skipped the permanent collection this time and focused instead on the Richard Serra exhibit, which was both amazing and deftly presented. But from what I can remember of the museum as a whole (and of similar museums in major European cities), I can draw the conclusion that this one of the best MOMAs in the world.
I'm of two minds when it comes to modern art.  On the one hand...c'mon, anyone can do some of that stuff.  A line on a piece of paper?  On the other hand...they were the artist inspired to create whatever they created, whether complicated or not, and you cannot take that genius away.  Plus there is always the classic modern art if you cannot understand the new modern art. In any case, MoMA is a fantastic showcase of any art.  The building is fantastic, a true warren of exhibits.  Sometimes you will stumble upon an installation piece with the artist live, sometimes you will find yourself staring at a Van Gogh without realizing how you got there. MoMA is certainly worth a visit.  While all the arts can use our support, unless you are a fan, perhaps utilize the student discount or a sponsored free night to explore, rather than feeling like you paid $20 for something that does not interest you.
This is a must if you have some time to burn in NYC.  MoMa attracted more than 3 million visitors in 2010.  Quick tip: start at the top level and work your way down.  The better (more famous) works are on the upper levels.  I would give this place a 5, but some of the "artwork" is too off the wall my taste.  For a laugh, check out the work entitled, "White on white."  If you don't mind the crowd, go on Friday night between 4-8pm for free admission. Otherwise it's 25 clams for adults ($22.50 online in advance) and reduced admission for students.  Beware, MoMa is closed Tuesdays.
I'll give the MOMA a 3.5 stars.  I am definitely not impressed w/the layout that is really confusing and inefficient.  I am sure I skipped some rooms due to the poorly laid out floors. I love the courtyard area where one can sit and just enjoy the weather when it's nice out like TODAY.  It sorta transpires you from the hustle and bustle of NYC.   It's well worth visiting just to see the different forms of art work on each floor.
Love, love, love, the NY MOMA!! If you haven't been yet you must go before the end of May 2010 to catch the Marina Abramovic exhibition. It was absolutely moving, exhilarating, and enticing. Abramovic offers a visual symphony and one cannot simply explain how inspiring the single visit to the NY MOMA has been. Outside of the main exhibition you can catch amazing views of Manhattan through the floor to ceiling windows, permanent collection works from Pollock, Bacon,  Rothko, and Van Gogh. Just go... spending 20 dollars never felt so good.
Love my visit there very much! Very good stuff and exibitions! Very smart expositions and passages. I admired Salvador Dali exposition and Americain Modern Art. Also there are enough soft benches in halls to repose your feet. Employees do not stick to you, I even did not notice their presence. I will back with pleasure!
In my honest opinion, the MoMA is about as posh a place for art snobbery as it gets. I'm a big fan of the arts, but I think that modern art is a mix between some really great, new stuff and some things that I think are only revered because they were created by supposed "great artists." The bousousie art fanatic, I think loves a place like this, while most people sit and wonder what a stack of newspapers is doing on the ground. I'd say on average, every room had one piece that caught my fancy and stimulated me mentally. The rest was just white noise. I think that whether or not the artist had some deep spiritual reason for making a paper cone and putting it on the floor, the piece still needs to speak to the audience. I found it ironic that a place like this displayed art from a specific well-known artist whose pieces they displayed were created with the intent of showing how once they were considered a "master artist" they could create anything and the bousousie art world would consider it a masterpiece when they themselves considered it a joke. LOL, oops. Someone never got past art history 101.
Oh, God! I was there last week cause I saw in somewhere that the Dali thing was going to start that week... I will go there till september when it ends! Just love Dali... Crazy guy! :P
Metro from hotel to MoMA = $2.25. Student discount = $12. Ooh-ing and aah-ing over Andy Warhol, Pablo Picasso, Monet, and Frida Kahlo; as well as lesser known artists, architects, product designers, and photographers, thus satisfying the art-obsessed persona within me: priceless. I wish I had more time (got there at 4, museum closes at 5:30) to explore the 5 floors of this place, but I would say that this was one of the highlights of my trip to the city. I ADORE art museums and being able to see pieces such as "Starry Night" up close was such an amazing experience. If only I could be here to see each special exhibit...
Drawing inspiration from design in technology and the arts, MOMA has got to be a hub for one's creative propensity. With a penchant for drawing/painting as a young kid, my folks thought that I would become an architect or some kind of graphic artist. To date, the art history/analysis/application courses taken have not been in vain as the inclination towards aesthetic and design ring through current technology blueprints. Refresh design ideas in modern architecture, interior design, creative arts and utilitarianism combined with works such as the Getty Center's blueprint, Monet's Starry Starry Night, Campbell Soup and many others. So many famous names and works of art can produce an enlightening sentiment, perhaps.
Little did I know that I would actually enjoy modern art. As a fan of pre-modern art (I used to work at a museum filled with pre-modern treasures from China), I was trained to scoff at anything modern.  Ok, or I was just never really exposed to anything modern that was tasteful :) The museum is in a random location (I expected it to be on museum row)  but it was very nice! I was surprised that they could actually fit a courtyard in there. I'm glad that I could get in for free (corporate privilege!) because the ticket price was pretty steep. I don't know if I would pay that much to go there in general. I loved the current exhibit of drawings that they just had on the side of one of their walls. They were kind of like political cartoons -- but a lot of them all together making a collage of cartoons of current events, thoughts and ideas. The other exhibits were great too. I don't have a very good understanding or knowledge of modern art, so I can't really say anything about the art itself, but I can say that the exhibit space was HUGE. Sometimes I'm just surprised at some of the space you can find in Manhattan. I would think this kind of space is impossible to fit, especially since it had very high ceilings -- when I worked in a gallery.
Love it. We went on the sponsered free night, and while there were a lot of people milling about I got to see some of the paintings I adore and got introduced to newer artists. The museum is well laid out, but a bit stark.
In this museum I definitely felt it - I'm in New York! People everywhere, modern art, both famous and not, it was a great time. Only weird thing was the number of people with toddlers/small kids in the museum. I definitely would not take small kids somewhere where through mischief or accident they could damage works of art! It just could happen too easily. I particularly enjoyed the photography and the exhibition of design in furniture and consumer products. Now I need to go to SFMOMA. Shame on me - I've never been!
I feel like I'm cheating reviewing this museum as I only had time to jet in and out to see Van Gogh's Starry Night. As I was zipping in and out, I really wish I could have taken more time on the fifth floor to see the other paintings.   But seeing Starry Night makes me give this a five star rating.  That piece never fails to amaze me...even when I see replicas and prints.  I just love it.
First thing's first, if you have a CUNY student ID card, you get in for free! I was pleasantly surprised by this fact when I handed over my ID to get the student discount. So yay for that! We came here with a couple exhibitions in mind: a shimmer of possibility by Paul Graham (there until May 18th) and the Dumas exhibition (which I believe is already gone...sad). The MOMA's layout makes it very possible to catch things in between, and you can always catch their "staples" like Andy Warhol as you move from featured exhibition to featured exhibition. The MOMA is definitely a place you could spend the entire day in, but thanks to my hyper-powered metabolism, I was hungry within a few hours and ended up calling it a day before I ran to the nearest street vendor and ordered $5 worth of a hot dog and soda... P.S. If you're of the more "casual observer" persuasion (like I am), then you will be delighted to know that there are plenty of vociferous art snobbish "I wish I were a MOMA tour guide even though I'm not employed here" nitwits running around that you can make fun of (or in my case, make not so quiet snide remarks about them to your girlfriend).
This is my other favorite museum in the city (see Metropolitan Museum of Art too). I love the classics (Monet, Renoir) but I have been a big fan of Modern art my entire life. I studied a lot of the contemporary artists (for the semester I majored in Photography) and it was very nice to have the chance to see some of the pieces for myself. This trip is never the same trip twice. While the Met has special exhibits, a lot of the rooms don't change very much. At the MoMA, the exhibits change all the time. Yes, they have a permanent collection, but that is only a small piece of the puzzle. The line to get in can stretch down the block. Try to avoid going on the weekends if you can; even though that's usually the only time I'm there. If you have a student ID, make sure to bring it. While I don't mind the expense of experiencing culture, I do wish we were more like London and were able to go to museums for free. I never made it out to MoMAQNS when they were going through the renovation, but the new space is absolutely beautiful.
My frequent visits to the MoMA maintain my physical, mental and emotional health. Its a location I can always go to either with friends or by myself, no matter how many times I've seen the permanent collection. In my personal opinion, you can easily see the entire MoMA in a day but you WILL spend the whole day doing so. The building is wonderful if slightly confusing at times, with large spaces within which they display the art in typical museum manner: white walls, minimal explanations, and SPACE, a fact that is extremely necessary during certain times of the year either when a new exhibition opens, during the summer and in holiday seasons when tourists make the NYC population swell. It can be extremely crowded during these times, which makes a visit somewhat unenjoyable since its harder to have a nice view of your favorite pieces without elbowing your way to them and having people in your way constantly. In the spring and summer, the sculpture garden is extremely popular and crowded with people either having a snack, sitting in the sun or reading a book. The dining areas in the museum are also nice, if small. The menus are wonderful but a little limited, and the dishes are slightly expensive. However, the food is delicious so if you're willing to splurge or don't want to go through the trouble of finding some place outside the museum, they're a great place to dine at. I especially like the Terrace restaurant, but there's usually a line because of how nice it is. The best thing a New Yorker can do is become a member, especially if you visit as frequently as I do. Its great because you get to immediately skip ahead of all those lines and just enter the museum at your whim. I've done that before to either feel some air conditioning in a nice environment, or to run and use the bathroom (shhhh). Besides, its a wonderful way to support such an amazing institution!
Wednesday afternoon, 6/3/09 The museum itself is a very open space that is lovely to walk through.  I wish I had a date, but I couldn't find one on craigslist -- only AIM chat bots that advertised webcam girls.. Anyhoo, I love to shit on contemporary art.  It's amusing though, to walk through and stop at ones that catch your eye, take a few seconds to fail at finding merit in them, capture that moment on film, then move on.  It is a decent time-passer. What captured my heart though, was the design section.  I took my sweet time looking at all the cool stuff, and wanting to buy half the exhibit.  Someday, when the recession is over. For the amount of time you can spend here at such a reasonable price, I highly recommend this place!
Two words: FREE FRIDAYS!! Six more words: FREE ENTRY WITH SUNY STUDENT ID!!!! Love the layout of the building..really captures that "modern" thing they're going for. I suppose I could give an expansive review of each spectacular piece of artwork they've got in there...but instead i'd rather simply encourage you to go check it out yourself... One brief note: You do NOT, i repeat do NOT need to take a photo of yourself in front of memorable pieces like Van Gogh's Starry Night...I'm sure people will believe you when you told them that you saw it!
One of my favorite places.  Though the level of enjoyment does vary on the time and day of week you visit (and dependent on your tolerance for crowds), there is always amazing art to ponder and reflect upon.  I particularly love the sculpture garden in the winter - when it's freezing and less people venture out and interrupt quiet moments.   The permanent collection here makes me happy and never ceases to be satisfying and interesting, despite how many times you've seen it.  I absolutely love the special exhibits selected by the curator - the current Tim Burton exhibit is one of the most intriguing and exciting I have ever seen - great insight into a brilliant, witty and dark mind.
"We visited the Tim Burton Exhibition which was very cool.  I am a big fan of Tim Burton movies and now I am a fan of his art.  The exhibition had samples of his earliest work as a teenager up to present day.  He has such a unique style and the museum did an excellent job of showcasing this.  The works included sketches, sculptures and life-size figurines of memorable characters from his many movies.  Definitely worth going, but then again his artwork may not be for everyone. As far as the rest of MOMA, I am not an art aficionado so I am hardly one to offer a review of the fine art on display.   What I will say is that I was very excited to see Van-Gogh's "A Starry Night" Get to MOMA as early as you can.  The lines get very long very quickly....even the line to check coats and bags became incredibly long ."- My Friend
I came to this museum to see a special exhibit of Tim Burton's work of drawings and movies. His work is on display until April 26, 2010. The museum itself is a work of art. MoMA has a vast collection of masterpieces from Dali to Picasso and other artists that you probably haven't heard of. The museum is roomy and has good lighting for taking pics w/o the flash. Currently MoMA has a the Target Free Friday promotion where admission is free on Friday afternoons. There are also films shown there on selected dates. Be careful of kicking a shoebox on the 6th Floor, it's part of the exhibit.
I love visiting this museum! It's funky, it's new, it's unique. They get in some fun traveling exhibits as well as providing patrons with some famous pieces owned by the MOMA. Starry Night is the highlight here for me, though it seems to be released often to other museums so it can be a bit tricky to catch. Sure, much of the work is modern and abstract, but that's the fun of it all. I also love the way you're whisked to the top floor and work your way slowly back down. you can go at your own pace, but the floorplan seems to really help keep the crowds moving without too much trouble. Sometimes there are free nights - I believe it's Target Thursdays? - but be there early for this. It's also a lot more crowded on free nights, obviously, so it's perhaps worth it to pay for a ticket and go on a regular day. Regardless, you should definitely stop here on a visit to NYC - it's great!
As an avid museum lover, I think this museum is absolutely fantastic!  The admission price is kinda steep ($20), but if you can(eventhough it's crazy crowded) try to go on a Friday from 4-8 for the Target Friday's Free Admission!   The best thing about this museum is that it has so much to offer.  Every floor is different!  It's Funky...this museum is pure funk!  It's very fun!  I love, of course, that it has a lot of Andy Warhol art...especially the infamous Marilyn Monroe (I really dig Warhol!)  Lots of Picasso, Dali and Klimt. Right now the Tim Burton Exhibit is going on, so check it out!! Enjoy!
This is one of my favorite museums anywhere. If I didn't have a corporate membership that gives me free admission, I would probably become a member. The special exhibits are always pretty interesting. And the permanent collection has so many high profile pieces. Not sure if I can add anything else beyond what other people have said... Probably my favorite museum in New York City.
I love this museum! It is definitely a must-see in NYC and I'm so glad I went. Their admission is $20 which is kind of expensive... I went on a free Friday, but I guess I wouldn't mind paying $20 for this place because it is worth it! I started at the top floor and worked my way down... I loved all of the art in this place! A lot of great surprises from famous paintings that I didn't know lived there! It's such a bright and happy place... I wish I could go there again :( Even if you are no art expert (I'm certainly not), it's such a great place to visit! I got so excited to see many familiar works. :)
What can be said that hasn't already been put down in words on Yelp?  Just do yourself a favor and GO.  This is a world class Modern Art museum with some amazing (and often not-so amazing) pieces.  Cutting edge.   GO!  GO NOW!!
One of the best museum experiences I've had. The collection is amazing, but what really sets it apart for me is the quality of the exhibits in terms of design and composition. There's something here for everyone: I could have easily spent an hour just looking at the typography exhibit alone, but maybe I get a little more excited about serifs than the average Joe. The admission price of $20 is a bit steep, but since you can easily spend the better part of a day here and still not see everything, I consider it well worth the price.
Picasso, Van Gogh, Pollock, Warhol, Matisse, Dali. And, tons of others. I am elated to have had the opportunity to experience the artwork of various artist with my own eyes and in such close proximity. Only wish I could had gone more frequently.
Lots of art. The contemporary sections makes you go, "this is art?". You can get lost in the art and take lots of time just strolling through everything.
I've been to many, many modern art museums (I LOVE THIS STUFF!).  This one was awesome, but only 4 stars because I've seen better.  I went during their Matisse featured exhibit, which was pretty cool, in addition to their photography of sculpture which was intriguing. There was no stand out exhibit when I went there, but I enjoyed my overall experience.  There were a ton of people here, even though I went on a weekday.  At some point in the afternoon it becomes free admission (details on their website), so I would recommend sucking it up and going in the morning before this happens!! Their permanent collection is expansive and impressive, hosting classics from Van Gogh, Dali, Picasso, Monet, Mondrian, Warhol, etc.  A feast for the aesthetic senses!!  They have an outdoor sculpture garden that is nothing short of beautiful, and was currently featuring Yoko Ono's wish tree. The highlight of my trip was when I popped around a corner and was surprised by Van Gogh's "Starry Night" staring me right in the face.  I was awestruck...for about 10 seconds before I noticed the large crowd pushing me out of the way to take quick snapshots with their iPhones.  That kind of ruined the magic for me...so I snapped my own picture and went on my way. I definitely recommend coming here!
I really enjoyed MoMA today.  The special exhibit was Matisse - I was surprisingly pleased.  I liked how each floor has something somewhat different to offer, and that there's not a gajillion rooms to go through.  Of course there's still a lot to see, but it's not as overwhelming as the Met.  I especially liked the water room that displayed the future of Manhattan - really interesting architectural innovation and designs.   Working our way from the top to bottom was great because that's where the special exhibit starts, and then you work your way down from history to present day.  The sculpture garden outside was whatever....I think UCLA's sculpture garden is better!  But it was fun to hang up a wish on the wishing tree. Good stuffffff.
This is an awesome museum to go.  I'm not a big art person, but I do enjoy going to museums and I enjoyed walked around and looking through all of the different exhibits.  It's not quite as huge as the Met and the tickets are not suggested donations ($20 admission to the MoMA), but its still a great place to go. I may not fully appreciate all that modern art has to offer, but there was a lot to see and the highlight of the visit for me had to be Starry Night.   Overall, a definite must see museum.
Moma is a fun place to go if you are looking for something to do on Friday night. Admission is free if you go between 4-8pm. Some of the exhibits engage the audience as part of the art. There was one exhibit with a light shining through various prisms to project shadows on the wall. While you walk through and pose, you are creating images. Another exhibit was a enclave that was wide enough only for two people. Once you stepped in, your image was projected onto another. There were mirrors on the floor, walls and ceiling. The juxtaposition of your images created an art form only you and the person standing next to you could appreciate. Other exhibits are functional forms of art, such as the modern kitchen or the architectural exhibit: "Small Scale, Big Change: New Architectures of Social Engagement." The latter demonstrates how design can be functional and aesthetically pleasing. Imagine- functional art! I am not a member and I do not appreciate all the exhibits, but whenever a interesting exhibit catches my eye, off I go to W 53.
I was SO honored to get to see every piece in person! I spent the WHOLE day here with my roommate and we enjoyed ourselves.  We encountered rooms full of famous pop art by Warhol, splatters from Pollock, post-impressionism from Van Gogh, stylistic sculptures from Picasso and creepy surrealism from Dali just around the corner. I was in heaven with cultural photography and typography all over the walls. My camera got a fatty work out here, most def! This place has the most creative architecture I've ever seen (in all of my 19 years of life, at the time...) it's very inspiring with its high ceilings and seemingly endless rooms. The only time I ran out of a room was when I accidentally walked into a dark one screening The Exorcist, the original! Yikes! I wish I was able to afford the stuff in the bookstore, but I probably just looked like a kid in a very expensive candy store, sitting cross-legged on the floor admiring artsy-fartsy notebooks and other desk candy. Tips: + Student discounts ($5 bucks off I think) + Travel light (lots of security)
If you have the mind for modern art, you will love this place. The exhibits are huge and you could spend days in MoMA. There are the classics of modern art and some new exposures. The lay out is done well. If you are limited on time and like the classics, Monet, Van Gogh, Picasso, start at the top and work your way down. The windows overlooking the city and the sculpture garden played well and gave great visual break to the museum. A must in NY.
Love MoMA's, and love this one. It's big, with many floors. We went during free Friday's (4-8pm every Friday), so the place was packed as expected. We got to see a lot, and stayed for maybe an hour or so. Always great displays and expos. And I just love the MoMA store for all the creative, artsy things they have.
I'm fortunate enough that my company is a corporate member of MoMA, so I can go as often as I'd like for free! But even if I had to pay, an individual membership would be well worth it for the amount of time that I spend here. I tend to go to all of the special exhibitions and wander around everything else - since I can go as often as I'd like, there's really no reason to spend hours here if it's insanely crowded. Sadly, since I work (who in the world can come to the museum on a weekday except tourists?) I have to go in the evenings when they're open (which is Thursday during the summer, and Friday year-round - but that's Target Free Fridays, when the museum is free for all who come - insanely crowded I've heard, never been myself) and weekends (can be crowded, but might not be - just have to try your luck I guess) This of course says nothing about the art on display here. Yes, they have Starry Night. Forgive me if I'm not beside myself. My normal likes in art can be a little eclectic, and the collection here suits that taste well. They currently have some paintings on display on the second floor that are nothing more than a date. They were painted by the artist on that day, and if they're not completed by the end of the day, they're destroyed. Simple, yet inspiring. The design collection on the second floor is pretty cool. I can't wait for the "Talk to Me" exhibition in July, which will analyze the communication between people and things. As a fan of user experience and human-computer interaction (though not educated in either of these areas, simply aware that they are critical and often overlooked), it should be an interesting exhibit.
A great place to get away and get some culture.  Peaceful and calming enviorment that helps you take into perspective the beauty that is out there.  You can just hang out here all day and see beautiful masterpieces and feel so tiny in this art universe.  Its like a parade of magnificent minds and colors to inspire you to your next brilliant idea. I went on a free day so you may want to check and plan for the visit, its a great date spot and just to kill time on a rainy day.  I am a better person for having spent time in MoMa, I am going to make this a ritual.
This place really surpassed my expectations. It's huuuuuuge. Six floors of exhibits? Awesome. I'm not a huge art fan - let alone modern art - but with six floors to explore, there's something for everyone here. It was interesting and well worth the  visit. My favorite part was probably the Picasso room. Very cool. Almost surreal to see these paintings up close.
What's not to love about MoMa?  I love going to see Dali, Van Gogh, but my favorite is probably the Warhol and Mondrian.  They always have the most amazing exhibitions and the design of the museum itself is really worth a visit.  The price is fairly expensive.  Target Fridays are great deal, but extremely chaotic with very long lines. While there are many fantastic museums in the city (Met, Guggenheim) MoMa is probably my favorite.
Amazing!  I went with friends and we thought that we might spend an hour or so here, but we ended up walking around for almost 5 hours.  There was plenty to see for every taste and enough well known artists and not so well known artists mixed together that we didn't lose interest.   The gift shop is nice but I wish it had more items geared toward artists and not just kitchy trinkets. I've been in many art museums and this is definitely one of my favorite ones!
For a really long time, The Met was my favorite place on earth. However, after a second visit to the MoMA, I'm pretty sure it's a toss-up. Thankfully, second time around I didn't almost fall into that red canvas.... I did, however, have the opportunity to walk through a doorway of nekkid peeps. I'm not kidding. There were two special exhibits this time around, the Tim Burton exhibit (awesomeeeee!) and "The Artist is Present," which was a huge retrospective of the performance art of Marina Abramovi. I'm not really into performance art, but this stuff was just so beyond cool, and really made my friends and I think (which I guess is the whole point of art, right?). If you have the chance to get to the MoMA before May 31, I highly recommend checking out the exhibit. But if you can't make it by then, I still highly recommend coming, despite the pricetag (come on Friday afternoons for free admission). I almost cried the first time I saw their collection of Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein. It's almost as if the museum can't contain all the awesomeness. This time around, they had a lot of interactive exhibits, too. As for the layout of the museum, it moves up and not out, which, in my opinion, makes it easily digestible, and makes it hard to miss anything, really. It's easy to navigate and really just a fantastic place.
Six floors of some of the most breathtaking art in the modern world.  I won't pretend to be one of those people who can stare at a piece of art for hours and just smile, but I do appreciate art at its finest, and MOMA has it. Picasso, Monet, Pollack, just to name a few.  My heart raced when I came across the Monet section, as he is one of my favorites.  And when I stumbled upon Warhol's piece depicting Marilyn Monroe, a huge smile danced across my face.   If you live in New York, or are just visiting, please make sure to visit MOMA.  On Friday's after 4pm, it is free, but can get crowded.
Great place to kill a couple of hours and see something different while in New York. I was in town for a wedding recently and decided to stop by. I found a Groupon on http://ponshoppe.com so I was able to get in for half price. The exhibits were pretty neat, especially the music room. Afrika Bambaataa Planet Rock FTW!! Also, it was nice seeing a Van Gogh in person. FYI - the museum layout is confusing. I should have grabbed a map because I got lost countless times. They need better signage in there. Exit signs often point you to fire exits and not public exits. While I was there, the 4th floor escalator failed. Crowds of people were stuck waiting forever at 2 elevator banks. Luckily I found a hidden set of stairs that led to the 3rd floor.
Stunning! Last time we were in NYC MoMA was closed so this was my first visit. My first feelings were what a great Café, hungry we headed straight for lunch. Then we entered the Museum Galleries and I have to tell you it was overwhelming. I've seen a lot of art over the years, and loved it, but this collection of modernist art is akin to arts greatest hits, the top 100, the top 1000. I spent 8 hours, yes 8 hours in this place and left still feeling a sense of almost shock at the wealth of the collection. I felt almost a little dumb for not realising before the enormity of US private collectors activity in the 20th century. But I thank them all for leaving their collections to MoMA. If you like art then you have to go, simple as that. Some details I loved were the mix of design and photography within an art museum. The Sculpture Garden for recovering but not the iced coffee. The Paul McCarthy piece 'Penis Hat' which may well have a 'serious' mesage but made me laugh out loud, always a winner in my art opinion.
I love MoMA and could probably spend several days absorbing the various exhibits. We arrived on the dot of 10:30am, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed Bostonians (if there is such a thing). Here's a plug for membership -- with my friend's member card, we were able to jump the line that had formed outside (on this blustery day) and head strait into the museum. Honestly I think we saved almost an hour!! Plus membership supports our beloved institution. :) Minus one star for the SURLY museum staff. Come on people, I know this is THE CITY, but rudeness is sooooooo last year.
I LOVE THE MOMA! The paintings were my absolute favorite. To view SO MANY famous pieces of art in person was truly amazing and special. This is a very user friendly museum with convenient escalators and simple direction signage. Lots of natural light flowed in which added to the open and airy feel. I can now say I've been to the MOMA-SF & MOMA-NY.
I'm not artsy fartsy.  Most art goes straight over my head.  Seriously people, since when is painting a canvas all one color or with stripes art?  Isn't that more like... interior design???  Or how about those pieces where you walk in a room and there's a ball of yarn on the floor and some twigs in the corner.  Art?  Clearly I don't get it all.  But of what I do get here, I really like!  The Kitchen exhibit is really entertaining and has quite a bit of history in it.  I adore the photography exhibits and could spend hours there.  I've also found one of the most compelling, if not slightly disturbing pieces here called "Hide & Seek" (not currently on display).  And by compelling, yet slightly disturbing, that means it was good. Am I qualified to "review" an art museum?  Not really.  But if you're a simple gal like me, maybe I can help you see that you will find things you'll enjoy here.  There's a lot of different things and it's quite big.  Just roam!  You'll find what moves you.
Mmmmm, how do you review a museum that has constant exhibition changes? I'm not sure.. I got in for free with my corporate discount (check if your company has one at the information area). Save your ticket stub to get in free at PS1 in Queens (you have 30 days from the day you visited MoMa). It's a fairly large museum so def. take a map and take advantage of what you want to see first. Weekends = crowded. If you can, go on a weekday.
What is awesome at MoMA right now?.... Seurat's drawings...WAY COOL...especially the cafe-concert drawings, studies for Le Grand Jatte, and the Bathing Place at Asnieres.  My VERY favorite are the concert drawings.  Be sure you see them up close, then stand back....or, better yet, back away from them and watch their fuzzy soft focus become clear and defined.  Go as far away as the other side of the room and then check them out again.  Seurat is cool.  A nice departure from his better known pointillist works. They have some interesting Calder mobile-sculptures, as well.  Oh, yeah...the permanent collection is great, too.  I never tire of seeing it.
Came here for the Sunday Nights at the Sculpture SummerGarden. I was told it seats 900..wow! We arrived at 7:15pm for an 8pm show (you have to when things are free, esp in NYC) and there were already 300 people ahead of us. The venue last night was Jazz and the artist was Miguel Zenon who hails from Santurce, PR. You figure someone from PR would be laid back and play some smooth jazz. The last thing I wanted on a Sunday Night was a Sax blaring in my ear nonstop. Unfortunately that's exactly what I got so I left after an hour. Perhaps that's the style of jazz but he really played like he only had 4 minutes to live... Time is waiting We only got 4 minutes to save the world No hesitating Grab a boy Grab a girl Time is waiting We only got 4 minutes to save the world No hesitating We only got 4 minutes, 4 minutes I mean, it got old..FAST. This guy was the Usain Bolt of the Sax. Why so rushed me lad? Sit down, have a coffee, and people watch for goodness sakes. Is this what NY has deteriorated our musicians to? *shakes head* more info: http://www.moma.org/cale…
Gotta love Free Fridays sponsored by Target. Went here for the Dali Painting and Film exhibit (June… Read more »
This is one of my favorite museums ever.  Really world class and everything is interesting to look at because its modern art, not some jesus-y stuff from the 14th century.  i guess thats my personal preference though. most people with even the most basic knowledge of art will spot a few artists whose name they know, which always makes it exciting. The line was out of control on a saturday morning.
For $20, admission is a little steep, but if you get a membership, that can quickly cover the cost of a few visits, and the place is huge & worth returns.  The new exhibits are almost always interesting, varied just try not to go the last or first weekend its open, then you really have to fight some crowds.  They have the all-star floor of Van Gogh, Dali & Monet, which is fun to check out as well. Not to sell on the membership, but as a member, you can skip the lines, get into exhibits before they are open to the public and they have MoMA member nights with beer & wine!  Boozing & art, what a combo!
Van Gogh, Pollock, Warhol, Kandinsky...Drawings, Paintings, Photos...a Helicopter! Even with the craziness of the Friday free time, it is so worth it.  Particularly if you are a NYer and you can go back for many free Fridays. I say this, because I made the mistake of taking my older, male cousin here, paying $20 a person, he hasn't let me live it down...
the new and improved MOMA is quite cool. The building is nice, layout great, collection pretty amazing, and the rotating exhibits make my mouth water. the admission is pretty pricey but Friday nights (after 4) are free. It's still worth the $20 though. free coat check anyone? it's modern art, (my fav, and hard to find in Boston) shown really well. I still liked the old MOMA a lot, but the new one is pretty damn fine too! Just go. Learn, look, be inspired, be insulted, admire, or at the very least people watch and see some cultured celebrities.
This is a must see for anyone living or visiting the city. Not only is beautiful architecturally, with modern masterpieces on display, the circulation is brilliant. I am a huge fan of the central garden/courtyard, and the installations on display there. Unfortunately, we had just eaten, so we didn't try the cafe. Will do next time. Yes there will definitely be a next time.
EPIC art museum! I swear to all that is holy that anytime I find myself in NYC I will go to the MOMA. The crowds, the lines, the price, the whatnot? Totally worth it! A few quick tips: 1. If there's a specific exhibit you're coming to see (a Tim Burton exhibit was there for example), see if you can get tix online, or sign up somehow to get a "pass" into the exhibit faster (or bring a member). 2. Don't be shocked that even if you got the fast line, the exhibit is probably socially awkwardly full. 3. They're closed on Tuesdays fool. 4. Photos are allowed in some exhibits. 5. You can get a cool view of the sculpture garden from the top floor of the MOMA 6. The food is pricey, but mother effing delicious.
Being more farty than arty, I thought that MoMA wouldn't have much to offer the common man.  Not that I'm closed minded, I'm just more likely to hang out at the pub than the gallery.  But MoMA may have opened me up quite a bit. Art, or "art" as it's defined in some areas, is not a forte of mine.  I don't know what to look for, techniques, etc.  I just know within seconds of seeing something if I like it and to move on or look a bit deeper.  Just so happens Picasso now knocks my socks off, especially with his multiple freehand draws before the final piece.  And Warhol, with the silk screening - it's something so simple that he takes to a completely larger level. Some "art" I still just, don't, get.  But that's why there's places like MoMA cause there's enough for eyeryone.  Even kids.  The volunteer gave my kiddo a book that takes you thru the galleries and gets you to look for specific things.  An "art" scavenger hunt of sorts.  I really got into it too.  I think I actually yelled "WOOO!" when I found one piece we were looking for.   Audio tours are free but boring in my opinion - if I wanted to hear someone else talk about art I'd probably take a class.  Ask the volunteers, grab a map, a pencil, maybe a kids activity book and do it.  Take a break halfway thru and grab a beer at the bar.   Take a weekday off.  Call in sick.  Just get here, but beware the weekends.
This museum is gorgeous! Especially the outside area. I want to have a party out there! I went to a night exhibit for Diego Rivera and the whole place was lit up and sparkling. So pretty.
I only came for a movie.  When I come again I will update my review.
Say what you will about the Met or the Gugg, but I think this is the coolest looking art museum in town. I only saw about half of it, being really tired that day, and only having about 2 hours to look at stuff, but it's such a gorgeous building, I could just sit there and look at that and watch the people walking around. I got in cause it's free on Friday's after 4.
This is the place to be on Fridays - since its free.  Seriously - there are so many people.  Not for the faint of heart who don't want to wait in line or shove their way through picture takers to see a friggin painting.  But I still love it: the masses of people make me feel like NYC really DOES have a thriving creative element to it that's not just about fashion.   I go here at least once a month on free friday and there's always something new for me to see.  One other annoyance which is more of an annoyance with museums in general is the inability to touch art that's obviously been made to be touched.  For instance, one of the pieces up now says in its description that the artist was invoking participation in his piece...and then right below the description it says, "DO NOT TOUCH"....kind of defeats the purpose of interactive art.  Where can I find interactive art anyway?
MOMA is a no nonsense choice if you want to see modern art.  The architecture and interior space of the museum is also worth mentioning.  I could spend hours in here.  Watch out for crowds during tourist seasons and weekends. There are a couple of cafes spread throughout the museum in case you want to grab a bite to eat or drink.  The outdoor area is particularly relaxing even if there are a lot of people.
I'll admit, I only go here when I'm free on a Friday to get the free admission.  So I've only visited when it was packed.  I never thought I'd be a fan of art, but I love the MoMA.  I didn't know that some artists (like Picasso and Van Gogh) were modern artists.  Shows what little I know/knew on the subject.  The architecture of the building is pretty cool, and the special exhibits are are intriguing.  My first visit here had a Salvador Dalí exhibit... and since they I've been hooked.  For the non special exhibits, it's like watching a movie over and over... even though it never changes you'll always find something new. You'd never guess that behind the white panels next to the elevator is the huge elevator that lifts the exhibits...
I'm more of the kind of guy who you would usually find in the gym or watching sports, so when my friends decided they wanted to go to the MoMa I think it would be fair to say I was a little less than thrilled.   After the first 5 minutes of walking through I became a MoMa convert.  There were so many different, fascinating and stimulating exhibits they could've left me there all day and I would have been happy.  There is something for everyone here.  Multimedia displays, furniture, photography, abstract art...everything. If you're the kind of person who has never really "gotten" art or never cared about art, open your mind just a little and make it here in the morning and walk slowly...there's a lot to see and it will be impossible to not find something you like.
Free admission for SUNY students and I suppose former students... Very vast museum with great pieces to look at. Went today for the Tim Burton exhibition, but failed to notice that it was members preview and that it actually starts tomorrow. But I can spend an eternity in the sculptural garden, something about it leaves you with a sense tranquility. Absolutely amazing view of NYC as well. This establishment offers an escape from the busy 5th avenue crowd.
We get off the elevator on the 4th floor and one turn later we are looking at Starry Night. Wonderful The museum is layed out great, we planned on spending a couple of hours .....well 5 hours later we had drag ourselves away, Take your time, you might not get the chance to go back again !
Brings out my NY snob. Love, Art starved, Portland Oregon
i gotta say...i just LOVE their collection. in my opinion MoMA has the best collection of art in NYC. HOWEVER---ever since they re-did the building i'm just not feeling it. the collection is still superior, but the new layout is just confusing. i've been there twice since they re-opened and both times i got very confused and found myself having to retrace steps...just so i wouldnt miss anything.
I wish I could spend the night there. I spend practically the whole day here just looking at art works, trying to understand them, acting like I understood them but really I was clueless.  I got the ticket as a combo thing with Top of the Rock but I end up coming here on a Friday when it was free (by donation).  In the end, I was so tired yet so inspired all at the same time.  Nothing new that I could said that hasn't been said.  Definitely stop by the MoMa store, lots of awesome things to buy.  I bough a candle thing that lights in color.  Yea.. I am a cheap tourist.
I love the water tower art piece that can be viewed from the outdoor garden (it's a tribute to all of the water towers that used to be in New York).  The exhibits are always pretty cool, although I don't understand why when I mention the MoMA, people always bring up the helvetica exhibit.   I went to a really cool exhibit, Design of the Elastic Mind, that was really awesome.  Sometimes I just end up walking around to see what's new (my company has a membership so I get in for free)
Going to a museum on the first truly chilly day in NYC means that it is going to be really crowded.  And it was really crowded.  However, my husband and I had a free pass so we decided to go since we had never been. I am so happy that we came here.   The museum is very good.  i really appreciated the Picasso and Matisse.  There was one Klimt that I really loved.  We made our way through three floors starting on the 3rd. My only gripe is the cafe.  After 10 minutes, the line had only moved a tiny bit.  We opted to skip it since I didn't want to waste my day waiting in a line.  I wished we had decided to eat at the Modern.  It probably would have taken just as long at a sit down restaurant since the line was not moving!!
If you have one hour to kill, see this museum.  Think it can't be done, oh, it can.  I assure you.  It will be the best one-hour you have ever spent in your life viewing different modern art.  Paintings, photos, sculptures, architecture, pop art, and Americana, this museum has something for everybody.   When there is a gigantic line to get in, just tell the security guard that you're going into the gift shop...BADA BING...BADA BOOM...you're in like Flynn baby. Yes, you can spend all day here.  Hell, you can spend all day at any New York City museum, but who has that time?  When you're on the New York minute, you always have more places to go to and people to see.
If I could marry a museum, it would be this one. I love every bit of it, even down to it's obnoxious ripped up piece of paper under a glass on a pedestal.   My next trip to NYC this is a  MUST GO TO!   The collection is so extensive and purely amazing and completly ORGASMIC!
My flight from JFK to SFO was at 3. I walked to the MoMA at 11am. My last few hours in NY? WELL SPENT. (majority of the time was spent on the 3rd floor, getting up close and personal with beautiful models in the architecture & design galleries--so much to love & absorb and go gaga over!) Thankfully, I was able to check my carry-on in coat check, although the MoMA doesn't usually check luggages; 7 Av. subway stop was also walking dist and the E train takes you all the way to Sutphin to transfer to JFK :)--such convenience.
Feeling like crap lately - thanks to this place, found the will to carry on for a few more measly months without endless weeping. Anyway, had about two hours here, and it was barely enough to shuffle through all the floors with a few stops to stare at my favorites.  Didn't get to spend much time with the Burton show b/c at Friday noon, it was waaay too crowded.
I only got to spend about an hour and a half at the MoMA before it closed. but in that time i saw a lot of amazing stuff. I honestly didn't know that Starry Night was there, and was in shock when i saw it. It truly is beautiful up close in person. Now I know that its the Museum of "Modern Art", but some things were a little too modern, ex:  a piece of wire hanging from the wall lol, however i will be back at the MoMA next time i'm in NYC =)
Ahhh MOMA...how I heart thee..and how I wish I can have one, just one of the hundreds of pieces that hang on your wall.. Matisse, Van Gogh, Picasso, Pollack, Lichtenstein.. the "What was Good Design" exhibition was a treat.. We were lucky to have gotten free passes otherwise entrance fee is quite pricey.. so much for art for the masses.. but anyway, great place to get your art fix on. The garden/courtyard is a perfect place to unwind from the overwhelming art and crowd of people.. Still..I'd come again and again...
I guess you really have to be a true modern art fan to appreciate it. First art that we saw was of this little kid giving another kid a "sucky"...from there, the 1st 2 floors were pretty much of the same theme, disturbing stuff like that.... The top few floors with Picasso and Van Gogh was better...building had some nice architecture to it...for art lovers, it's probably heaven, but this wasn't my cup of tea. I would've preferred going to the Museum of Natural History.
The Museum of Modern Art is definitely worth a visit; it's one of the most popular museums in the world. I was surprised they allowed non flash photography. I recommeneded setting aside 2-3 hours for your visit because the museum has several floors and exhibits.  They do also provide a free audio guide device for more information on the artists or artwork. The museum was packed so I had to maneuver around people so I could see the artwork as well as the artist bio. The museum had many exhibits and many collections from famous artists past and present. Chaos and Classicism was their main exhibit for the season. Very cool to see the man playing the piano from inside of the piano in the lobby. A must visit in NYC!
TARGET FRIDAYS: Here's the deal. They start at 4pm. The tourists start linging up at 3pm... but there is no limit to the number of tickets they hand out--- everyone gets a ticket. The intern said that if you arrive by 5:30 usually there isn't a line and you can just walk in. But come on MOMA..... just give us the "suggested donation." $20 bucks?
Such an inspiring collection of modern paintings!!!  I didn't get to see nearly everything and could come back here again and again i think.  You know when you leave with 24 postcards of your favorite prints, and wanted more but had to stop somewhere, it was good.   I was surprised that you could take pictures of the works, and by the time I realized you could, I had already passed too many great ones to go back and start my whole own collection/retrospective (which I started to regret after ogling and dreaming at image after image).  But the bookstore has a lot of postcards of the works, plus they are much better reproductions if you don't mind paying $1 for each.
This is one of the greatest museums in the US. Where in the world can you see some of the greatest modern artworks all in one place? Van Gogh's Starry Night, Jasper Johns' American Flag and Andy Warhol's Soup Cans.  I think it is somewhere on the 3rd or 4th floor, there is a 3D Dali artwork. When you stare at the picture it looks like one of his drawn artwork, yet when you notice the surrounds of the picture, its all pieces strategically placed in order. The designer furniture is pretty cool. I wouldn't mind having the 8 foot lamp in my room or the interesting artpiece near the entrance in my living room. This place gets packed like crazy, so try to get here early. It's great to come to a museum without being guarded by the art Nazis. Conveniently located in midtown, somewhere in between the Upper East Side and Times Square. The SFMOMA is pale in comparison to the original.
I love modern art, and the MoMA houses a couple of my favourites.  The new location is more convenient and the space is quite nice.  Target sponsors "Target Free Fridays" from 4-8pm, however, I recommend going at another time, even though you have to shell out $20 (adult admission, $12 for students with current student id).  I went on a Target Free Friday and it was SO PACKED.  I could barely enjoy any of the art since people were always in the way. I came back again recently with a friend and we were able to leisurely stroll through the exhibits.  Don't forget, your MoMA ticket also gives you free admission to P.S.1 (valid for 30 days from your MoMA visit).
5 star collection,  but deduct 1 star for poor navigation. Administrative tips, especially for the out of town visitor who comes to NY fairly often: --enter and dump your coat to the left of the membership desk, where there's typically no line --get a national/international, fully tax deductible membership
One word: PACKED. Some friends and I went hoping to see Tim Burton's exhibition, but it was sold out :-(
Call me old fashioned. I don't dig the more abstract creations of MOMA, on the lower floors. Which is why I love the museum. I walk leisurely through floors 5 and 4, stroll through the third and jog downstairs through the second floor exhibits. By the time I'm done I've brewed up an appetite, and NYC is all too happy to provide for it.
To be honest, I really don't like museums. I really, really, really don't like museums. To give you some perspective, I found the Louvre to be slightly disappointing. There you go. Now, moving onto MOMA. Nowhere else will you find yourself staring at two regular clocks both at different times, wondering how this is classified as "art". Or, looking dumbfounded at a canvas painted blue. But to be honest, I loved it. Despite the countless works that left me feeling slightly perplexed, I felt somehow inspired by everything. Isn't that what an art museum is supposed to do anyways? Make you use these pieces of art as inspiration for your own life? Well, if what I say is true, then MOMA has definitely done the trick. Thank you, MOMA. For many things. But most importantly, for adding some unique spice to my cauldron of life.
I love this place so much I could live there... We have a modern museum out here in LA but nothing compared to this one. I couldn't believe how many floors of amazing art we saw and the book store as well as the separate MOMA design store. I was completely blown away! Be sure to give yourself at least 2 to 3 hours to walk through the museum. I hope to go back again soon, I really felt at home there.
Modern art is not generally my scene.  Especially American modern art. This place is full of it.  I found most of it waspy and dated. Despite the Warhol films exhibit, it seemed incredibly deficient in anything Queer.  I didn't see a single Francis Bacon.  I would have been delighted to see something fabulous like Pierre et Gilles. As is often the case, I generally preferred the Expressionist exhibit.  I was pleased to discover Umberto Bocciono. The rest was a lot of BS and a lot of "Meh."  Among the best moments are video pieces that would be just as well viewed on Youtube: the music video for Laurie Anderson's "O Superman" and the Yoko Ono exhibit in your mind video.  I initially found the room full of kitchen implements insulting but it grew on me after a while. The Warhol films exhibit was worth checking out though.  The large room at the center of it is simultaneously playing a dozen of his screen tests of people such as Susan Sontag, Edie Sedgwick, Nico, Lou Reed, Dennis Hopper, Allen Ginsberg...  And I thought they were interesting when projected all at the same time like that. I don't know that I'd pay to go here again unless they were putting on something wonderful.
Escape reality by stepping into MoMA and enter the art lover's dream.  If short on time, go directly to the fifth floor to gaze at paintings from the world's most beloved artists.  Join the impromptu semi-circle that gathers around Van Gogh's "Starry Night" and then turn behind you to be entranced by the dream-like quality of Rousseau's work - "The Sleeping Gypsy" and "The Dream " will be to your right and left.  Continue on and meet Kahlo, Picasso, Cézanne & Monet.  Before losing track of time, be sure to visit my favorite piece in the museum, Salvador Dali's "The Persistence of Memory."  Reality will not be the same as when you left.
Escape reality by stepping into the MoMA and enter every art lover's dream.  If you're short on… Read more »
During my recent trip to NYC, I had the fortune of visiting this museum. I was very short on time, however, and did not get to enjoy the masterful and beautiful works of art as much as I liked. Having visited the SFMOMA quiet a few times and being a fan and an artist of modern art, the MOMA was a must see on my trip. The layout of the museum is pretty good but not the best for someone who wants to see everything in a limited amount of time. (I would say the best layout out of the Met and the Museum of Nat. History) The MOMA has an amazing collection of modern art, seeing which (in person) brought great joy to me. My greatest highlight of the museum visits in NYC was here. The Starry Night by Van Gogh.... what more can I say....
What can be said that hasn't been said? As a photography head I have the MOMA to thank for helping deliver the world photography as a fine/contemporary art form. Under the helm of John Szarkowski the MOMA helped turn color photography into one of the 20th Century's major art forms.   And if your like minimalism, impressionism, and contemporary forms, well,  you know the drill. Essential.
3.5 stars I discovered that I'm not a true purist on modern art.  I enjoy it but there are a lot of truly abstract pieces here.  great collections though, appreciated the free audio tour.  I don't think I'll be back soon but it surely a great addition to NY museum scene.  I think I prefer the modern art museum in DC.
Beautiful beautiful beautiful! I love the outdoor space because you get to enjoy the sculpture garden and people watch at the same time.  It would be a perfect date on a sunny afternoon. This MOMA is much larger than the downtown Los Angeles one, and it has several floors.  I love how everything is spread out so the artwork doesn't seemed scrunched together.  Clean atmosphere, friendly staff and beautiful art... everything I love!
As a mild art nerd, MoMA's the place to be. It oughta be mentioned that Friday nights  after 4pm will be super super busy. Why? TARGET FREE FRIDAYS. As Cheapy McCheaperson, this is ideal for me. I can enjoy the exquisite works of art with my friends at no cost. Simply delicious. The ticketers are so accustomed, they just hand it over once you come up to the desk and off you go. Despite the huge, insatiable crowds at times--I'unno if I'm just used to bustling outside of a museum--it can be a great experience. The museum is huge enough to navigate with ease and no one will kill you if you stay at a piece of art for a while. A lot of the crowds seem to be concentrated on the first to third floors. ...The sculpture garden is my favorite, though. Always quiet, always great.
Neat to go to one of the great art museum in the world. The place is huge. A lot of different exhibit to satisfy everyone. Outside courtyard is really nice. Tip: on Fridays in the summer, starting at 4PM, it's free admission. We went during this time and it was packed. I was exhausted because we spent the day in Midtown. But seeing Van Gogh's Starry Night, Picasso, and some of these great artists you hear about or just see on a poster in person I felt a lot better. It was an amazing experience.
I did all of Moma in only a few hours, and while I didn't spend too much time on every piece, it was exactly what I wanted. I was impressed by the number of famous paintings Moma has on display, and was surprised to see how big or small some of them were. The museum has a good mix of traditional and interactive pieces.  When I went there was a microphone stand you could yell into to hear your voice echo around the room.   Moma was nicely spread out over 6 floors with lots of comfy benches to sit, rest, and people watch along the way.
Free for active military!!!! Just go to the information desk with your ID rather than the regular ticket area. I will say that I hate contemporary art, especially the stuff that is mostly recaptured garbage and recyclables.  There is some of that here, but all the art is nicely separated by era for each floor.  If you've ever taken an art/art history class you've probably seen slides of a lot of the works that are here (lots of the famous and the less famous works of Picasso, Van Gogh, Monet, Miro, etc.).  Definitely cool to see them in person.   Gets very crowded on weekends and holidays.
I've been a member here since college and I refuse to let my membership lapse because every time I'm in the area I pop in.  They always have something new and interesting and I love writing in their sculpture garden when it's nice out.  It's very inspiring.
Ridiculous collection, awesome events.  Membership is worth it if you like to pop in and out and see all the special exhibits.  Their corporate membership program is also huge, and people can often can get 4 tickets at a time, so make a friend! Space is ok.  I suppose they needed an expansion but it's just bigger, not better.
The MoMA is the other museum I would recommend to those who only want to go to a couple museums.  Their collection is on point, and their exhibitions were great when I was there: a good contrast of Dan Perjovschi's poignant drawings (that were literally just drawn on the atrium wall with a thick pen) and Serra's massive space warping steel.  I would definitely go back next time I'm in NY. Directions: Located in the heart of midtown @ 53rd St. Fifth Ave.
I got in for free because of the NYC pass or else I would not pay full price to get in. I'm not much for really crazy modern stuff but I do appreciate most of the collection here. But honestly, my reaction to most of the art displays were : "I can do that."  There were exhibits that had a framed piece of paper with a pencil line in the middle. Come on now! There was a long piece of paper with a single typewritten number. Great! I did love the paintings though. I'm sure the artsy people would love all 6 floors pure modern art.
If you're visiting NYC and love modern or contemporary art, you have got to go to this museum pronto! It is my personal favorite because it houses one of Vincent Van Gogh's world renowned painting the "Starry Night" (Cypresses and Village). They have a myriad of interesting works by Pablo Picasso, Frank Lloyd Wright, Frida Kahlo, Andy Warhol and some up and coming artists. The exhibits are so eye-opening and peculiar you'll easily forget the time ticking while you figure it out. I hear a lot of complaints about the $20 entrance fee and the how crowded it gets. But consider this, with the renovations, accumulation of art  and calibre of artists rolled into one building you are getting more than what you paid for. If you compared the admission to the Lourve in France. They have a single day general admission of 18 Euros which is like $25 bucks but you can't go to special exhibits otherwise you'd pay a whooping 50 Euros or more. Also, if you're a tourist try going there during week days and go early.
Well Janel Y. took the words right out of my mouth...lol I went to see the Tim Burton exhibit (open until April) & it was awesome. He has such an interesting an creative mind. It's definitely the most popular exhibit so you should buy your tickets on-line at least a few days in advance (a week is better) because tickets sell out fast & you won't be able to see it if you just show up. It's definitely a must see...& a good way to gear up for his interpretation of Alice in Wonderland.
This is a review of MoMA as a museum facility, not a review of the art. There's no way to put a star value on the artwork, and I wouldn't even begin to try. Suffice to say that if you like Van Gogh, Gauguin, Matisse, Monet, Picasso, Hopper, Liechenstein, Man Ray, Wyeth, Miro, Cornell, Warhol, Dali and other modern masters, you'll find something to enjoy here. In terms of layout and design, this is not my favorite museum in the city by a longshot. The building is huge and yet the galleries have low ceilings and feel claustrophobic. The security looks the other way when people take flash photos--which over time destroys the artwork--and when your fellow museumgoers get unruly. My friend was actually shoved and had someone leaning on her back in one of the galleries. Come on, it's an art museum, it's not Grand Central. I'm going to agree with other reviewers here that the Tim Burton exhibit was extremely poorly organized and laid out. As other people have mentioned, the staff doesn't bother checking the timed tickets at the door or even trying to limit the number of people in the gallery, so it's a madhouse. In the time we spent in the exhibit, we were shoved more times than we could count and I was kicked by a child. We actually gave up on seeing a few of the pieces because there was no way to get to them. The end result was that an exhibit that should have been amazing and fun became very draining. It's all a shame, because the art at MoMA is spectacular and deserves much better.
It's the MoMA!  enough said. Currently (till the end of May) you get TWO great shows, Henri Cartier-Bresson   (HCB) first retrospective and Marina Abramovic's live preformance "The Artist is Present'.  HCB's is unusual in that is the first time so many not so well known (or even till now unknown) photographs are being exhibited, and because it emcompasses all of his various phases - and there are a lot of these. One star off for that. Marina's piece is very unusual too because what started as a re-enactment turned out slowly into a new piece of performance art. The show is as much about what goes on around it as about it itself. The MoMA really outdid itself this time. If you missed it here's a bird's eye view of the event  http://www.flickr.com/ph… It may have been noted previously, but the admission price is rather steep and a bit unfair for out of town people. If you do intend to visit more than a few times I recommend getting a yearly membership at about $70 this lets you get in very fast and also lets you bring in guests (up to 5) at a discounted price  ( $5 ea).   Fridays are free from 4 to 8pm - but the air gets stuffy /stale - it already  actually is often so already- the ventilation is terrible. Also check their excellent snacks at the cafeteria, very good even by NY standards.
The MoMa has wonderful featured exhibits. Over the weekend I  went to see the Matisse: Radical Invention exhibit and I was just floored. I could sit in front of the Monet collection for hours. The Picasso displays are soul catching. The architectural layout of the building is incredible. The garden is spacious and relaxing. Very cool museum to lurk around in, catch a bite, take in some fresh air outdoors.
There are a good number of noteworthy artists and works that I loved. The building in itself is a work of art. I especially liked Monet, picasso, the Starry Night, and Dali. Also Diego Rivera's work was memorable! It's amazing how art was created in the 1900s...so beautifully mesmerizing and time-consuming.
Got to see Starry Night and a great Picasso exhibit with a ton of his guitar works. I really enjoyed seeing those two. There's also a temporary exhibit of Andy Warhol Moving Pictures right now. They're mostly close-up shots of people's faces (including Dennis Hopper). Pretty cool.
I truly adore MoMA, it is absolutely my favorite museum.  Every time I stop by something new and amazing catches my eye.  The collection includes familiar pieces of art that everyone should see, such as van Gogh's Starry Night, but the exhibitions are what truly makes this place special.  Recent favorites of mine have been the Picasso guitars, On to Pop (lots of Andy Warhol), Abstract Expressionist New York (lots of Jackson Pollock), and Small Scale, Big Change (socially conscious architecture).  My annual membership has paid for itself and then some.  Stop by Cafe 2 for some tasty Italian treats and be sure to visit the always awesome MoMA store to round out your visit!
For those who have an iphone: Get the apps.
While I enjoyed my visit to the MOMA (the architecture and space are really amazing), I felt that the museum focused so much on the most abstract and futurist artists from the past 100 years to the detriment of other, more interesting works.  It was really nice to see 'Starry Night' by van Gogh for example, but overall there were very few works by artists such as van Gogh, Monet, etc.  The ones they did have were great, and you could get very close and study the work, making me wish for more.  Also, on the museum map it listed Dali, but I could only find one Dali painting on the entire floor!  That was very disappointing. I would say the museum is worth going to once, to see the space and a few very good paintings.  I finished in about an hour, so it's definitely something to see on Fridays from 4-8, when it is free.  Unless you are really into the most abstract of art, then you will have a field day here.
I love the MoMa store. The museum has some things that are worth looking at and others that are simply uninteresting. But the overall experience at MoMa is superb. A very nice time for old friends to gather together. The time I went they had a Dali exhibit and it was FREE since we went on a FRIDAY. All Fridays at MoMa are free. And not only that, they give you a ticket which can be used for free entrance to P.S.1 - their sister museum in Long Island City. So, really, if you have nothing to do and have never been to a museum or if you're just looking to spend some time in a quality manner without rotting your brain, MoMa is just the ticket. Especially great for a visit before dinner on Fridays since you'll have something to do and you'll feel that you've been "cultured." Definitely check out the shop, it has the most unique collection of gifts and things ever.
Brilliant. The MOMA has what seems to be unrestricted access when it comes to programming special exhibits, and thus, I feel like I get to experience truly unique events. The only aspect of the experience I wish could be different is the fact that this museum is so notoriously excellent that it can get too crowded for my taste. Not much that can be done about it, I suppose. A side note, the staff seem to hate their jobs... wonder if it's a bad company to work for?
The architecture compliments the pieces the museum exhibits perfectly. The spaces have many instances where you can see the different levels and the people moving through out them making the people that occupy the museum an exhibit onto itself. I was fairly impressed with the pieces on display and I'm glad that the whole breadth of modern art was shown including furniture and architecture. I like the amount of natural light the museum got even though it's located int he middle of a dense part of town. I also like that members of the museum have $5 discounted tickets for their guests.
It's my first visit to Moma. But I hugely moved!!!! I love this place! The starry night is one of the best arts in the world, and I was so happy to see this great exhibition in Moma. If there is free time, I'll go Moma again!!
That's right. 5 stars. One of the best museum restaurants in town. I don't mean dropping $200 at The Modern -- I'm talking about in the museum. Quite decent food. Contrast with the overpriced cafeteria (I know, it's "green") at The Museum of Natural History. I like the architecture of this building. The special exhibits are hit or miss. Depends on your taste. I really enjoyed the Cartier-Bresson exhibit last summer and before that the Tim Burton exhibit. I don't happen to like Burton as a filmmaker but he is one heck of an artist. The women that sat in the chair for a month plus and starred at people. I didn't get that one. Nor the related naked people up on floor 6. Which reminds me. You basically couldn't get in to the Burton exhibit (at least without a crazy wait) unless you are a member of MOMA. If you are a member you go right in to the special exhibits. If you go to MOMA  four or more times a year (whether alone, or twice with someone, or once with a group of 4) it pays to join. You will save money and not wait on any lines and not get locked out of special exhibits. Avoid MOMA on Friday's after 4pm because it's free and very crowded. Unless you are going more for the crowd than the museum..... Also note they have free concerts in the summer. But they get very crowded.  It's a nice setting though. In the sculpture garden.
I LOVE the MOMA, period.
In addition to a beautiful art collection, this place has a FABULOUS cafeteria--great food and the world's BEST TIRAMISU!!!
Superb every time!  Kids free is great bonus!
I feel guilty ... just one star for MoMA. But the true is that I'm disappointed - where the hell is the art? guston painting 1954  made my escapade a valuable. 6 floors - 4 good works of art.
Really, really enjoyed the Musem.  The Diego Rivera exhibit was my favorite
My favorite museum in North America.  I generally stick to the the permanent collection, in particular the Impressionist works, and check out the revolving exhibits if there's spare time.  My favorite museum on Earth is the Musee de L'Orangerie and the MoMA is the only place I've seen Monet's multi-panel water lilies outside of France.  I can (and do) sit in front of it for hours.  So beautiful I literally tear up.  Solid collection of world-class art... and some "art" that makes you snicker, "wtf? I can make that bs at home - someone pay me $bajillion for it!" to be expected in any modern art museum.  I think all art has to be seen in person to be fully appreciated and this is particularly true of Vincent van Gogh - MoMA has some of his most celebrated works and the texture of his brushstrokes adds a whole new dimension to the paintings (2D to 3D, get it?  Yes, I'm a dork).  Wish the MoMA had more from Salvador Dali - intricate and insane is much better in person too. Great architecture with strategically placed open space and windows to frame visuals between floors.  I'd love to spend an afternoon reading in the sculpture garden - it's a mini-sanctuary in the city.   Only negative is that the MoMa is extremely crowded all. the. time :/
All the modern giants in art are found here including Picasso, Magrite, to name a few favorites, even Andy Warhol's wild paintings.  And architecture by famous designers of the 20's and 30's.   Worth the trip, and see expression of color in a different light.   Another pillar of art in the New York City culture rich city.
This place is huge! Had no intention on visiting but friends talked me into it. Well worth the time only did 2 floors and there are great exhibits. I personally like paintings and there were some excellent ones! Well worth the time. Try going Fridays after 4pm, it's free then.
From the moment you step through the door and into a towering atrium housing Barnett Newman's sculpture of a pyramid topped by an inverted broken obelisk, MoMA's new digs inspire awe and appreciation. Those who think of modern art as random splashes of paint or grotesque images that defie description should know that they'll find, among the examples of Abstract Expressionism, recognizable works by Van Gogh, Matisse, Cezanne, Seurat, Rousseau, and Rodin. Galleries, showcasing some 150,000 pieces from each of the museum's six curatorial departments (Architecture and Design, Drawings, Painting and Sculpture, Photography, Prints and Illustrated Books, and Film and Media), are less claustrophobic and much better lit than previously, and the vast open spaces are better suited for many of the oversized contemporary pieces. Cafe 2 offers reasonably priced Italian dishes in a casual, comfortable atmosphere. Art-lovers on a budget should plan their visits for Friday evenings when, from 4:00-8:00pm, you can browse free courtesy of Target, or invest in New York CityPass (http://www.yelp.com/biz/…), which includes this and five other attractions for $53, rather than pay the outrageous $20 admission fee.
love it
Once upon a time, I used to be an art major.  And not just any old art major, but a fine arts major.  As I was halfway through the program, my advisor (who was also my professor for a few of my classes), told me that I would never have "it" to become a "real" artist.  However, I had something called "an eye", coupled with a perverse and seething inner rage that allows me to easily and carelessly crush the hopes and dreams of others.  Basically - I should become an art critic. Well, I didn't go that route.  It wasn't that I didn't want to crush others' dreams - I do!  I do!  It was just that, well, I'm too naturally bubbly to have that air of disgust and ennui that one must cultivate to be a good art critic.  So I moved onto other things. However, on this trip to MoMA, for the first time in over 10 years, I wished that I pursued being an art critic.  Why?  Not because of the art that were on display (although, there are some "artists" that should be thanking their lucky stars that I'm not roasting their vision-less and talent-less butts in the New York Post right now).  No, it was because of the snotty, wannabe art student that was taking tickets. We arrived at MoMA at 11:30.  Our entry to the Tim Burton exhibit wasn't until 1.  We wanted to grab some lunch prior to viewing the exhibit, and wasn't sure if there was an additional line that we needed to be aware of.  So, I cheerfully went up to the young lady that was taking the tickets.  Now, I realize that being on a Saturday, that she's been probably swamped and undulated with people.  However, as this was only 11:30, I also know that at *most*, she was doing this job for only an hour (the museum opens at 10:30am), so it's not like she's been working an 8 hour shift already. I waited until there wasn't anyone in line to her to ask what she would recommend would be the best time for us to enter, as we weren't sure if there would be an additional line to the Burton exhibit.  She gave a deliciously dramatic sigh (cut the art honey, and go right to theater!), and with an eye-roll and a well practiced sneer that overly confident art students like to bestow upon the untalented plebeian masses, she replied that we can go in at anytime.  I pressed and asked if there would be a line for the Burton exhibit that we should prepare for, and she repeated the sigh, eye roll, and sneer, before replying that if our ticket is at 1, we should go to the exhibit at 1.  At this point, I was ready to unleash my considerable powers of deflating egos (yet another one of my completely unmarketable skills), but the pitiful hungry look on my friends' faces convinced me that this poor girl's ego would be deflated by life soon enough. In addition to the snotty staff, I have to say that personally, I didn't think the Burton exhibit was well managed.  I'm not talking about the exhibit itself (that review can be found here: http://www.yelp.com/biz/…), but rather, too many people were in that very small exhibit space, and there were no staff present to keep people from letting their kids sprawl all over the floor, or to ensure that bulky winter coats weren't knocking into some of the sculptures.  Eh. Perhaps I've been spoiled by DC's free museums, but I feel that if I have to pay a $20 entry fee, then the museum should have better staff (or at least staff who check their attitude in the break-room), and to have people to manage exhibit crowds - especially for one as popular as the Burton exhibit is.  However, I will be back.  On a weekday, when hopefully the crowds will be more manageable.  And with my soul-crushing perversity at the ready.
wow, i HEART you MOMA ... great contemporary collection! words are worthless ... just visit.
MOMA rocks!!! get there in morning, $20. get an audio handset, free. check out every floor slowly. i… Read more »
People are going to hate me for this but I don't care - it's my opinion. Listen, I'm as progressive as they get, but this place is for psuedo intellects who wanna pretend they see something that isn't there. Do I appreciate the attempt, certainly, but honestly paint splattered on the wall can be done by my 4 year old niece. What's the point? YOu are going to say 'oh you don't get it, there is artistic merit in the paint splattered on the wall or the random exhibit of a single string'...no I get it, I really do...it's adorable, I mean precious, but I can think for myself and don't need to pretend it's art. Oh the temerity and insight of someone who doesn't see the benefit and of an older woman slamming a medicine ball into her stomach (there is an exhibit that does just that and idiots stand around pretending it's interesting). Listen I've seen psychopaths suck on their foot beside a garbage can, do they need their own exhibit at the MOMA? No, they need to be put in a mental ward. I had a great time at the musuem sardonically looking over peoples shoulders with my hands clasped behind my back (that is the quintessential musuem 'pose') pretending to see something that isn't there, but the best part was going up to the staff on every floor and saying 'do you like any of this crap' and having them laugh their ass off because finally someone (me) was a voice of reason. Listen, I have a great attitude and appreciation for things, don't take my pejorative remarks as being pessimistic....just being honest. I love me some Picasso, but 6 floors of stuff that looks like it was done by a psycopath after 6 redbulls isn't tantamount to an exhibit in a musuem. I woulda had just as much fun watching a dog chase it's tail, but then again I always have fun cause it's perception
As we were walking towards the entrance, the usher asked if we were here for the free tickets. Free? Why yes! Of course! Since we were there early (3:15), we were able to get through a couple of floors of exhibits before the crowd because uncomfortably unmanageable. I guess everyone loves a deal. In any case, this is one of the best museums. They have interesting exhibits, a lot of artists I was familiar with, but not their most obvious work. Really a great space.
amazing! my husband and I headed here on the last day of our NY vacation. it was raining so many others had the same idea. as we started on the top floor, we had to pick our mouths off the floor to look at some of the paintings. we had no idea so many incredible works of art were here - many of my favorite artists. there were also quite a few good exhibits there as well. the perfect ending to our experience was wandering through the gift shop. wish we could have spent more time there! (ideally if it was a little less crowded, if that's possible)
" I do not know what I may appear to the world, but to myself I seem to have been only a boy playing on the sea-shore and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me."---Isaac Newton. Mr. Newton aptly describes how I fee every time I step inside any athenaeum or museum, especially the MOMA.   MOMA is fairly easy to navigate and a pleasant experience each time that I go. It can become very packed, but it is not unbearable like the subway during rush hour.    It  has a vast collection of paintings, prints, sculptures, porcelains, photography, and architecture. The highlights are the works of Cezanne, Gaugin, Van Gogh, Matisse, Warhol, the photos of Todd Webb, and Warhol's film "Empire" (which is eight fucking hours).  I always learn a lot by sitting and contemplating the aesthetics behind certain collections.  The beauty is that behind each piece the artist is conveying how they are seeing and perceiving the world. I find that some works here can be used as a proverbial mirror walking down the road and/ or an instrument of explanation and discovery--to discover how man is with himself who he is and how it is between him and other men. One drawback is that the MOMA could do a bit more education for the general public (which I know depends on budget, funding and the complex politics behind the Federal subsidy that I may not be aware of). I say this because I have no real technical knowledge of art although I am learning on my own and through friends that are artist. The appreciation of high art (and thus moving toward a balance of mind) requires not only thought but also some technical understanding of what's being done; it is just a shame that we (i.e. Americans) tend to bring that kind of informed judgment to our fondness for cars, handicrafts, computer systems (i.e. for objects that move and do things, as oppose to those that merely sit there and wait to be understood--like art). This is a great investment. I will always be back.
THIS HAS TURNED INTO A REVIEW OF THE MILOS FORMAN RETROSPECTIVE AT MOMA Feb 14-28 It's like a Vegas buffet line in here, the creepy guy on my right was talking to himself really loud. My friend said, "See, you don't want to grow old and be a freak like him." Then he says, "At least I'm not a bitch" I said something that was very unkind to him, he changes seats in a huff. New York is a rough and tumble city! most of the people are the old old creepy New Yorkers who live on Park Avenue there are also some sophisticated old people who hang out here too, and then there are young people who are there for certain films. I have been stalking Milos Forman for two days. We saw "Loves of a Blonde" with the actual actor and Milos present discussing the film and "Taking Off" really funny film, a precursor to "Hair." I saw  him again today. He was here yesterday to introduce the opening of the retrospective. The next two weeks will be bliss, all Milos Forman films almost every day--hoooray! Sat next to woman who was videotaping the movie when the director and producer of the film were there in the audience--declasse!   I am so relieved to watch films in a movie house where I'm not forced to watch interminable trailers and commercials, where I feel it is a scene from "A Clockwork Orange" where they try to brainwash me. The following are the remaining films of what I saw at the Milos Foreman retrospective: ==== Film Day #5 saw "Goya's Ghosts" Excellent film, although a little gory. Again, sat near crazy older person who babbled out loud to himself and tried to chat me and my friend up. Majority of audience still looks like Las Vegas Buffet line. In order to maintain sanity, proceeded to talk to my friend in a loud 67 year old woman from Upper West Side voice about my memory not being what it used to be and these damned kids today. ======= Film Day #6  Amadeus Saw the same creepy people as yesterday. Wow. Soooo happy to see Amadeus on the big screen, a lot of it just doesn't play out well when watching it at home. Nothing like hearing Mozart being played really loud in the movie theater. Saw this movie around 30 times on DVD, This is the first time I cried watching it. Sigh. ======== Film Day #7 The People vs. Larry Flynt This is the first film I am seeing by myself in this theater. I feel like I am changing into one of the crazy old people in here. Do the seats smell like mothballs or is that me? By FAR the loudest and creepiest people were here tonight, thank god there were only 50 people attending, probably because this is a pretty mainstream film. Creepy guys with thick glasses and greasy hair were screaming before the film, "Hey, you know, it's not a porno or anything" or "Hey Joe! get more people in the theater, it's not crowded enough!" then to me, "and no sleeping!" ack. I get chills just thinking about these creepy people.  I cried during this movie--can't beat seeing a film in a theater. == Film Day 8 Man on the Moon Not indicative of Forman's style, too Hollywood and glossy. Man who breathed with the flutter of mucus sat next to me and opened loud bags of potato chips. === Film Day 9 Valmont I will never judge a movie by it's actors who I find vanilla again, aka Annette Bening...I loved this movie, great extension of Amadeus-eque filmmaking with same framing with lush costumes and European settings, great lighting for indoor and outdoor period piece scenes. Sexy film. Go see it. == Film Day 10 *ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOOS NEST that was so disturbing. *BLACK PETER Great to see his exploration of character, seeing wheels turn in actors minds. Excellent *I LOVE SONJA HENIE/* FOREMAN DOCUMENTARY INTERVIEW OF ARTIST cool alternative film, plus great insight into the mind of the artist. i love Milos!!!!!! === Film Day 11 Fireman's Ball Crazy old lady next to me in the middle of movie starts mutterring, "It's mine! It's mine!" and glares at me. Apparently, when I put my hand on my coat on the chair next to me, I accidentally touched her coat. Is this an old age home or a mental institution. I didn't like Fireman's Ball, too old man skeevy theme--yuck. I did see the beginnings of Milos' love of shooting scenes under tables and while crawling around on a dance floor on hands and knees. Film Day 12 This is the last day of the retrospective. Even as a self-employed person, I missed a few of the films, but saw most of them. Very happy to end the retrospective with "Amadeus" again tonight. Sigh.
I was so lucky to have learned about the Polanski film festival. First of all, your movie tickets are covered with your admissions so make a full-day trip out of MoMA. Get to the theater early if you are picky about the seats. Take a lot of breaks if you are absorbing a lot of paintings, sculptures, and films.
I came here with my Dad to see the Tim Burton exhibit. It was awesome! I love the crazy imaginative sculptures, artwork and the movies playing were funny! We saw Tim Burton's version of Hanzel and Gretel, very cool, two thumbs up! Seriously words can not explain the coolness factor going on in Tim Burton's world!
From a tourist perspective, compared to my Guggenheim experience, MOMA is better. Compared to the Met, the Met is better. However, MOMA has tons of excellent pieces that can appeal to both the tourist and artist. By that I mean, they have both big and small names in art. I'm a fan of MOMA for their variety. If you have to choose between Guggenheim  and MOMA, I would first see what exhibit Guggenheim  has, then make your choice. However, if you can't do that, I would lean towards MOMA more.
how to properly spend a recession friday in new york: - meet your fellow unemployed friends at 4pm for happy hour. drink as many $2.50 beers as you can. there's nothing like being daytime drunk to make you forget your problems! - head to MoMA where it's free to get in every friday from 4-8pm. thank your corporate sponsor, target. - ogle hot european tourists while viewing the museum's spectacular permanent collection and current exhibits. realize that art can make you feel better than alcohol! - use the free polaroid application on your iphone and run around the sculpture garden taking silly photos and emulating art (see profile pic). throw pennies in the fountain and make wishes. - leave the museum at 8 and if you're lucky, bring a hot european tourist home with you...(safe) sex is free, kids!* - spend some cerebral capital and write your first yelp review in months. - repeat next friday. total cost for 3 beers, a serious dose of culture, hot european tourists and maybe your wish granted: $10.01. *note: kidding! i did not do this. unfortunately.
MoMA... Mo - dern to its core.   The museum is comprised of minimalist boxes of well-detailed curtain wall system, structurally independent of the intermediate floor slabs, but tied to the existing structure. The interior detailing is another feature that I was geekily ogling over.  First, the new gallery walls have a 1-inch reveal where the wall meets the floor.  I had to bend down and run my fingers underneath the reveal to inspect it closely.  To my surprise, this is one detail that is new to me.  The line is sharp.  And from what I can tell, it's a Z-profile channel of extruded aluminum, instead of the typical J-bead channel, to receive the gypsum wall board, creating a 2-inch reveal.  I was completely salivating over this handsome detail!!! Second, "floating ceilings"!  More extrusions were made to allow the ceilings to drift away from the walls. This feat serves another purpose other than for aesthetic reasons.  It also allows for efficient ventilating system, where air is extracted up into the system and through the reveal at the base of the floor, properly conditioned, and released through thin slits at the ceiling. Lastly, floor slabs stop short of the edge of the building, creating a thin slit between the floor line and the wall.  A minimal detailing gesture, but grand in appearance and perception.  I remember the time when I was visiting the Pompidou in Paris, where I was marveling over this very detail at one of the exhibit floors.  I was standing at the edge, peering down at the floor below (watching people mill around thru this very thin opening), wondering how it's supported.  Appropriately so, since I was at a nascent stage of my architectural education at the time.  Looking back then, I would now say to myself...DUH! M - agnificently well programmed. Yoshio Taniguchi's spaces flow superfluously.  The main level / lobby floor, which serves 2 entrances (from 5th & 6th Ave.), opens to a vast volumetric space, which houses the perfunctory functions of the museum (admissions / ticketing, information, coat check, waiting area, restrooms, & design / bookstore, etc.), and showcasing big installation works.  It then spills to the outdoor Sculpture Garden, or down below to 2 levels of Gallery Theaters, or upstairs to the Permanent Collections and Special Exhibitions.   Taniguchi's careful placement of collections, setting the Special Exhibitions on the top floor (6th flr.), descending down to the lower floors for the Permanent Collections (having the 2nd flr. dedicated to the more contemporary works and the 1st flr. for the more recent works), is a marvelous way to experience each genre in modern art.  Meanwhile, a great atrium bisects each floor's lobby space,  which serves as viewing platforms to the lower levels.  It's a great way to people watch! The new remodel exhibits almost ALL their permanent collections, where one can see a room full of Calder's mobiles, Miro's pieces, Monet's, Rothko's, Picasso's, Dali's, Magritte's, etc., etc., etc.  I wish MoCA would learn from them...that BIGGER is BETTER!  In this case, they won't need to hide their permanent collections in the basement.  They can actually exhibit them, for the public to enjoy.  Isn't that how it's supposed to be? A - rchitecturally & aesthetically pleasing!   See above for my previous recountal.  I think I have geeked enough to no end ; )
AMAZING! I haven't visited this particular museum in NYC yet & I'm glad I did! Save $25 & go Fridays after 4pm when its FREE! Get there early cause there's A LOT to see! Museum is HUGE, tons bigger than I thought (Not like the MET or anything, but still very large:-) Only wish I could have spent more time there, I was on a tight schedule but luckily was able to squeeze in a visit:-)
So what if I don't really *get* that a triangle painted lime green is Art.  There is enough at MoMa for me to *get* and love.  Also, MoMa will always hold a special place in my heart for more personal reasons.
This place is HUGE! Wish we had more time to explore. The de Kooning exhibit was dope, so many paintings could really see how life changed his style... Some of the art I wouldn't call art, like the random wood on the floor that looked like someone left after fixing a leak in the ceiling, but to each is own.
The museum building is itself an attraction, especially from vantage points that allow you to look up or down 6 floors from various angles.  Floors 5 and 6 have all of the highlights, with the remaining floors holding mostly filler, but also photography.
This is THEE place for modern art. I've come here for the Tim Burton exhibit, Marina Abranovic, New Directors/New Films. They always have amazing stuff going on, not just art. I like to come on Friday nights when it's free, but it is super crowded.
this place is WAY too hipster for me. i went to see waterlilies, i ended up seeing sketches that could have easily been made by four year olds. now i realize i'm being a little hard on MoMA. but i like modern art, i like post modern art. i'm a huge fan of the Neue Sachlichkeit movement so i figured i'd see some of that and i'd be happy. maybe because of the shear size of the place i missed out on some great work but what i saw was.... how do i say it..... blahhhhh. maybe i'm just not culturally inclined enough to appreciate a piece of paper with a single line of tape running down the middle as art. i did see some chagal though, and i LOVE LOVE LOVE him so i guess taking 15 dollars out of an already empty bank account was worth it?...
If you know everything there is to know about art, if you know nothing about art, it doesn't matter, this should be on your list of things to do in NYC. If you're looking to do something cultural, put this at the top tier with the Met or Lincoln Center. This is a phenomenal museum for lots of reasons. Beautiful museum. The highest quality modern art. You can get lost for hours and that's just if you plan on soaking in only a few of the masterpieces here. And modern art is not even my favorite kind of art. But I can truly appreciate it here. One bit of advice: Don't forget to people-watch. I once passed someone who looked an awful lot like Meg Ryan. Apparently I thought this out loud. Because she turned, waved, and laughed. That was awesome.
3 and a half stars. I was actually the most excited to see the MOMA after seeing so many intriguing pictures on one of my friend's facebook albums (haha...) I was a little disappointed, though I can't really put my finger on it. OK so maybe my reviews are a little skewed, seeing that I went during holiday season and that EVERY single floor was jam-packed with tourists and it took forever moving from painting to painting... I would give this museum another shot, but I'd definitely try to go during the less busy hours!
The permanent collection is so terrific and renowned that it really is worth the price of admission, but the Target Free Fridays aren't so bad either. You wait in a long line, but the vibe is youthful and festive and you might overhear some really interesting conversations. There's a lot to see here, and not all of these are on display all the time, but here are several highlights to look for -- - Van Gogh's Starry Night (you must see it in person to appreciate the rich brushwork) http://www.moma.org/coll… - Dali's surrealist masterpiece the Persistence of Memory http://www.moma.org/coll… - Picasso's scandalous Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (aka the DaVinci Code's  "vile meaningless doodles") http://www.moma.org/coll… - Hopper's warm-colored but pensive New York Movie (though it wasn't there last time I checked, probably because the Whitney was borrowing it) http://www.moma.org/coll… - Kandinsky's vibrantly colorful Picture with an Archer http://www.moma.org/coll… - Chagall's dreamy romantic Birthday http://www.moma.org/coll… Those are just a few of the highlights -- This permanent collection is a knockout!   Another tip - try to avoid bringing a backpack if you can, because they make you check it in, and the coat check line can be long!
To be frank, I'm not a fan of most modern "art". I say that because while there are gems to be found, from the photo exhibit of the West and some of the contemporary furniture, and classics by Degas, Picaso, Rodin, and Seurat, the rest of the collections vary in their quality.  I still cannot call a white canvas painted white (white on white, as it was called) and many of the pieces of simply junk arranged together as art... it feels contrived, almost like a grad student's thesis that was rushed through with lack of thought or foresight. Some things were very deliberate, and I can see how there's art in them, while others simply escape me (an entire section of an exhibit dedicated to lint, metal, and mirrors). And other things that are called art but that I suspect were merely accidents (a pile of paperclips or coffee in a pattern on graph paper) or schizophrenia (taking a huge blown-up version of a ship diagram and then painting a head, pasting pornographic photos, and wild brush strokes of black and color on a large canvas does not make it "art". There's certainly something for almost everyone, though. You'll find plenty to talk about and the building itself is gorgeous, with a nice sculpture garden, terrace, internal spaces to walk and marvel over. Of note, the placards describing various sections - sometimes poorly placed or not placed where you'd expect. Made for a bit of confusion. Several sections on my last visit happened to be blocked off under renovation, so we'll see. If this wasn't free (thank goodness for corporate donations), I'd be hesitant to visit as often as I do. The crowds can be pretty thick in here.... and avoid any leaning on the glass along the walkways, they aren't stable. Makes me think of that hotel in Kansas that collapsed because too many people were on the walkways. Bookstore, a couple cafes and more alcoves for those who wish to check out special exhibits and more are available. Photography permitted in some locations, and others not, some no-flash, and others where they don't care to say anything, yet. Certainly, half the fun here is people-watching, too. Definitely some interesting, beautiful, or strange people here perusing the galleries.
How could you not love the MOMA, after seeing Vincent Van Gogh's Starry night, and Monet's Reflections of clouds on the water Lily pond.. I am in awe. Frida Kahlo, Mark Rothko, Salvador Dali, What a wonderful experience..
The MoMA is a great cultural landmark of NYC and any visitor and resident should definitely set some time aside to visit this museum.  I have a corporate pass to the MoMA ,and I regret that I haven't used it frequently enough but I do  make a point of visiting it on an annual basis.  The art is showcased on several different levels, so you can choose your genre and type of exhibits by floor.  While I love the paintings and design rooms, there are some truly abstract modern pieces --- for these, I am at a loss of reaction when it comes to such sophisticated exhibits.  But I only blame my lack of knowledge in this area and hope that I can truly appreciate it at the level and depth that it deserves in future visits.  The only thing I dislike is that the crowd at MoMA is conducive to headaches, so I am sure that I am well energized before I go.
I'd give this 3.5 stars if I could -- I should mention that I'm not a fan of modern art and found much of the museum's holdings unappealing solely for that reason.  That said, there were definitely some amazing and unique things, even including some of the modern art.  I was especially impressed by the Impressionist halls -- I didn't expect them and they were a wonderful surprise; also, you can get right up to the paintings to examine the brushstrokes, which is a bonus not found at many museums.  The sculpture garden, architecture and design areas, and half of the photography area [the other half was the photography equivalent of modern art] were also excellent.  An additional plus is that Friday nights are free!  You'll deal with a mess of a crowd on Friday evenings, especially if large events are underway at the nearby hotels and convention centers, but the mostly wide hallways help ease (somewhat) any potential claustrophobia.
No matter what the current show, the MOMA's permanent collection of modern art is close to perfection. Endless hours of art and visuals in the museum & museum store seems educationally equivalent to at least a couple of my semesters at art school!
This and the Tate Modern in London are up there vying for my favorite museum of all time, and now that my bf gets a corporate discount at the MOMA (read: free admission and no waiting on line, thank you!), the Tate better watch out.  BUT, the MOMA still loses a star b/c their admission prices are annoying.  Thanks to Target, Friday nights are free for all, which is commendable: Target seems to have a mission of making art and high fashion available to everyone, which is awesome.  Of course, this meant by the time we were leaving the museum was packed.   But I digress.  We just checked out the 5th floor and the special exhibit   "Out of Time: A Contemporary View," then called it an evening.
I wish I had more time to wander around. I came here for the Tim Burton exhibit, but found myself meandering around the other wings and hallways mesmerized by the amount of light and artwork that was placed before me. Things worth noting: 1. As mentioned before in my Tim Burton exhibit review, get your tickets ahead of time online and PRINT them.  There is a long line for the ticket booth and an equally long line at the will-call to just pick up your tickets. 2. You can check your coat.  I'd say do it if you want to increase maneuverability.  Don't do it if you want to avoid yet another line. 3. Check out the artwork before hitting either of the cafes.  Both cafes open in the late morning anyway.  So get some art on first.  Take a breather at a cafe.  Then return to check out what you might have missed once you catch your second wind. 4. Come in the morning as early as possible.  You'll get more personal time with the exhibitions this way. 5. Check out the pamphlets at the information booth for the movie screenings they have there.  I didn't realize that I inadvertently missed a screening of Beetlejuice until it was too late. So what are you waiting for?  Go check it out.  STAT!
The only time to go is Fridays after 4, when it's free. Or befriend any New School, Columbia etc.. students so they can hook you up. Or else you will end up dropping $20 for Modern Art's Greatest Hits, aka Shit That You've Already Seen Like 20 Times. And why would you want to do that to yourself?
Many NYC  museums are closed on Mondays, but   MoMA is open daily except on Tuesdays from 10:30 a.m. - 5:30 P.M. On Fridays,  MoMA is open until 8 P.M. Friday is free so get there early. There are audio tours sponsored by Mayor Bloomberg. The audio tours are also included in the cost of admission. You'll need to leave an ID to get one, but the audio tours are interesting and offer  insight about the art that you are experiencing. They also have a  series of audio tours geared toward children that are interactive and fun . In addition to the great audio tour for children,  MoMA offers ongoing activities and events for children and families. Programs are available for children age 4 and up. Strollers are permitted throughout  MoMA (take the elevator, not the escalators.) . During the summer  months, treats  from Il Laboratorio del Gelato are served in the Sculpture Garden and lunch is available in the Terrace 5, a full-service cafe with a view of the Sculpture Garden and the city. There are also several other restaurants there that are more expensive. Over all a great place for the entire family!
i am not a huge fan of museums. i am definitely not so modern. my kids call me 'ancient.' i am so not artsy. i don't know the difference between teal and turquoise. but when you put all three together, museum, modern, and art, you get this oohs and aaahs and i-like-it!. this place is like spumoni. dull brown color of chocolate, bright green-ness of pistachio, happy pinkness of cherry all added to make this harmonious sweet, colorful, flavorful coolness. i am too ancient to get a student id but i got a discount using my staff id!!! i was lost in different exhibits. i definitely think that this place is a all day place. come early and take your time browsing through different exhibits. make sure to stop at the cafe on the second floor for some lunch/dessert. if you love spumoni, you will love this place just like me.
I think this is one of the finest museums devoted to contemporary art anywhere. The renovated space is spectacular. Navigating your way through the crowds on a Friday evening can be daunting, but it's worth it to save the hefty admission price.
This museum requires a couple of hours.  it's huge and has great shows.
OH MY GOD!  WHAT AN AMAAAAAAAZING EXPERIENCE!!! Ok, so I'm an artist.  This is what I love.  But, that aside, there is something for everyone at the MOMA.  There is just so much to see and it's nearly impossible to do all in one day.  I spent 7 hours there, and I might have to go back!   The special exhibitions are really really great.  When I went there was a Jeff Wall retrospective which was incredible.  Other really amazing exhibits: Out of Time: A Contemporary View, Live/Work: Performance Into Drawing, Comic Abstraction: Image-Breaking, Image-Making.  Also, their permanent photography collection was great as well the painting and sculpture collection.  I was just blown away by these-  nearly every single work was a famous, ground-breakingly influential piece of art I have read about.  It was so fanatastic see these works in person.  I had no idea I liked Paul Klee so much, and also Kandinsky!  I nearly peed my pants when I turned a corner in the contemporary and saw a Donalt Judd shelf piece, and I felt a little bit like I was have a religious experience when I noticed the Eva Hesse.  I can't even describe how great it was.   For people who do not have the same relationship to art that I do, there is still so much to experience.  It is a bit overwhelming but if you choose the things you want to see and not force yourself to look at every single thing (I skipped the design and architecture exhibit) then you won't exhaust yourself and you will see and absorb more art than you ever thought could.  This was one of the highlights of my trip and I recommend it to anyone who visits this city! ps. Your admission ticket gets you into PS1 for free if you go within 30 days.  However, the ticket price at PS1 (a contemporary art museum in Queens) is only like 2 bucks for students, 5 for adults anyway, so don't sweat it if you lose your ticket).
love this museum! free fridays after 4 or 3 :) Original starry night andy Warhol pieces, frida kahlo and Picasso definitely visit, after rockafeller and st. pattys cathedral since its all near.
Wait.  Live nudes without a two drink minimum?  Yet another reason why this may be the best museum there is.  Please don't grope the art.
Lucked out to be in town when the Tim Burton exhibit opened up.  It was amazing!  The entrance was… Read more »
Truly the benchmark for all other Modern Art Museums & Museums in general, i have been to MOMA perhaps 20 times over the years & every visit is fun, informative & inspiring. I love modern Art & just about every major artist & every type of style is on display here & even though it always super busy it is still possible to find quiet spaces & you can take your time or rush thru. To do MOMA justice requires probably more than 1 day.
with over 120 reviews, i'm gonna keep this simple. it's just big enough to be well impressive and enriched in content.  vangogh, warhol, lichtenstein, cezanne, picasso.. jesus, do you need more? fan of emigre graphic arts mag???  they got a whole wall of some great covers.   photography, sculpture, painting, design.   you name it.  the place has it all.. in moderation.  it's just enough for you to see in an afternoon without having to rush or come back.
Ayup.  It's all there.  Everything you could possibly want from moderm art.  Ticket prices are unbelievable, though.  Make sure to bring your old student I.D.  The student discount will bring the price down from unbelievable to simply ridiculous.
A museum which showcases art that uses elephant dung as a medium gets both my 5 stars and my business.
i had no idea i could get into the MOMA for free as a student but i can, which means many more trips on random weekdays when it's not inundated with tourists. yes, i am one of those people who likes to go to a museum and stand in one room for an hour before moving on. as for their permanent collection, I think they have way too much picasso, but as a whole it is a good representative of modern art, albeit a little male heavy.
Tip:  Come here to ogle/cruise for hot European boys on vacation.  And if that doesn't pan out, there's always the great art as backup.
I'm at MoMA at least once every week (sometimes everyday.) They have great exhibits, lectures and gallery talks, and film screenings. Occasionally, they would have the filmmakers talk about their work after the screening which is an extra treat.
This is an absolutely beautiful & cool museum. The art is interesting & they allow you to take pictures. This is a museum that everyone should see.
If a museum decides to sponsor an artist exhibition- they will most often always barrow a piece from the NY MOMA- they procure masterpieces from the artists.  Such as the "Starry Night" by V. Van Gogh, "The Dance I" by H. Matisse, "The Bathers" by Cezanne and the list goes on... I like that there are long banquette to help museum goers take a break or catch a breath- to behold these pieces is quite overwhelming!  My best experience here was the assorted media collection exhibit- and upon looking from a distance- this truly magnificent design on a canvas- was upon closer examination-  a canvas off an ironing board- with burnt iron marks that constituted the design!!! And the most profound statements we all make- " NOW WHY DIDNT I THINK OF THAT!" I just love the unexpected ;-)  I have never had much experience with Russian Industrial art- one of my memorable here was the Alexandr Rodchenko...I heart nyc!
I visited both MOMA and the Met on a 5 day trip to NYC. I thought the design section was the coolest part of the museum (see pics).  My favorite was a cow couch that was made in the shape of a cow.  I wanted to lie on it right there and eat a hamburger.  $20 general admission, $10 student.
Remember, tourists. No luggage is allowed at MoMA's coat check. Not even one of those carry-on bags, or something that looks like a piece of luggage. I happened to go there thinking that I will spend a few inspiring hours before I head straight to the airport. Alas, I was denied entry. I just wish they had a sign at the entrance door,  so I didn't spend one hour standing in line for ticket and coat check... for nothing.  Why didn't their security guards notice my carry-on bag and let me know about their coat-check policy before I wasted my precious time?  Be warned..!
The first time I came here, I only had 15 minutes (it's a long story) and the only thing I was able to catch was the Cindy Sherman exhibit. This time I was on a much longer timeline and got to catch the Dali (with bonus Bunuel action) exhibit, Picasso sculptures and much of the permanent collection. How it makes me miss my old Art School days but also remind me of that certain percentage of Art which is truly ridiculous. I'd have to dock one star as their photography section just doesn't seem up par for some reason, but I'm sure that can be changed if the brought in some excellent rotating photo exhibitions.
I suppose as far as modern art goes, I am a John Baldessari man.  Contemporary art theory can be a bit rich at times, and I love seeing a modern artist intelligently protest some of the more ridiculous assertions and conforming notions through the very medium itself.  To wit, his painting, "What is Painting" which is a blank canvas, save for the words, "What is Painting / Do You Sense How All The Parts Of A Good Picture Are Involved With Each Other, Not Just Placed Side By Side?  Art Is A Creation For The Eye And Can Only Be Hinted At With Words."  This instantly makes me laugh.  What is so great about the MoMA is that they still include the painting in their collection with nary a huff or a puff.   In fact, everyone is welcome here.  You can sit in a chair in front of Marina Abramovic staring at her until the museum closes if that is your want.  Prefer something more conventional?  Check out a Roy Liechtenstein or an Andy Warhol series.  You can enjoy seeing Dali's "Persistence of Memory", but be sure not to pass over all of the wonderful Yves Tanguy paintings in the same room.  See "Starry Night", a Jackson Pollock or two, a dozen or so Picassos, and if that becomes too much, have a rest in the sculpture garden.  They even have a mini museum dedicated to design that is better than going to the Cooper Hewitt museum -- in fact, going to the MoMA museum design store is better than going to the Cooper Hewitt, but that is a different review.  In short, everything is wonderful about this museum.  You can learn, appreciate, and never be held hostage to any single narrative about what art is or should be.  Admission is worth every penny, and you will come away refreshed in all of the ways art has developed over the last 100 years.  The museum is an encapsulation of all of the art created in our collective living memory -- that covers a lot of ground to be sure.   Go now.
going to give my 5 stars and leave a tip: if you go with your family, you're almost always better off purchasing a 1 year membership. the way the deal works you pay a little less than regular admission, and then if anyone in your family lives in nyc they can come back for free all year. yep.
It's never my idea to go to a museum, but I'll always agree to go.  There was a huge line backed up to the revolving door entrance, but it passes fairly quickly (considering the size).  General admission is $20, $12 if you're a student, and free if you're a CUNY student.  They have a pretty impressive collection: Van Gogh, Picasso, Monet, Pollack, Rousseau, etc. I can surprisingly recognize artists and paintings (and I've never taken an art class).  I just can't stand Warhol's videos and most of the "modern art" (a line going through 5 canvases, "wire & lint exhibits", a ripped canvas, and a homeless garbage exhibit).  I feel like I'm the only one smiling (wondering WTF) and waiting for Ashton Kutcher to come out to tell everyone that they're being Punk'd.
Last night was my 1st time in a NYC museum and it surprise me how crowed. Guess on a friday night after a certain time, they give away FREE tickets to see the museum which normally cost $20. We were thrill so everyone parted ways to go look at what they wanted to focus on. I wanted to walk all the way to the 6th floor and go downward to see everything in a short period of time. I was speed walking but my favorite piece to look at is Starry night by Van Gogh. We took a pic of it standing in front of the painting but my friend accidently touch it where the security guard asked her to stand away lol Overall i would come back here but i am happy to at least experience 1 museum in NYC so far.
Countless hours just fly by at this place.  It's an unbelievable architectural masterpiece by itself, with great lines and surprising views from any point on the floor.  Cameras are allowed, which makes for great pictures next to the light bulb installation on the second floor.  Fridays are free, sponsored by Target.  How could you not go?!  they have the Lovers by Magritte there.  Make sure to start from the top and work your way down if you are pressed for time.
This review is based on the Francis Alÿs exhibition: "Story of Deception." The exhibit consists mainly of short films. However, there are different forms of art throughout the show. For example, before the entrance on the sixth floor, "The Collector" (1991-2006) stands in the lobby. Bright little cars resembling toys made from scraps of metal containers sit on a steel three shelved bookcase. They have orange plastic wheels that look like Little Tikes roller skates'. Yellow string is attached to each car, and I am tempted to pull the nearest one and run out of the museum with it rolling behind me. This may seem absurd to some, but my idea is not that different from the artist's; after all, the blurb underneath the shelf explains that Alÿs created the cars for mobility.   Next to the shelf is an eight minute video of the artist pulling one of the cartons by its string around Mexico City during the night. The observer is able to hear the rough sounds of the wheels scraping the pavement. Sometimes the passing of real automobiles can be heard and the barks of dogs. The visual focus is on the car, but the artist's feet and legs are sometimes visible. It seems like a flashlight is used in order to see the object in the darkness. The carton is almost manhandled, as it is haphazardly yanked across town. At moments, it looks like it may topple over. I am nervous to watch the rickety childlike box on wheels being dragged on dirty streets filled with puddles until it is "completely smothered by its trophies," so I decide to head inside the exhibit. Following the innocence of the magnetic metallic cars, I was greeted with a more serious, perhaps dismal, piece entitled "Re-enactments" (2001). In this film, Alÿs buys a gun and walks around town holding the loaded 9mm Beretta in broad daylight. He marches nonchalantly, passing many people who pay no attention to him, the man with the pistol. After eleven minutes of uninterrupted strolling, Alÿs is finally arrested by police. Apart the content of the film, it should also be noted that the screen is split in half. After reading the annotations, I learn that the mirrored right half is actually a reenactment of the previous incident in Mexico City in order to show "the ambiguities between reality and fiction, while anticipating the way public safety came to dominate the social and political debate within Mexico during the first decade of the 21st century." Similar to the film structure of the gallery is Alÿs's work "Song for Lupita" (1998). The setting is unlike the others though, in that a filmstrip stretches out towards the ceiling and consists of a penciled animation of a young woman who is pouring water from one glass into the next. She repeats these motions and after minutes of waiting, the realization of no change or results leave me a bit disappointed. This ongoing theme of "maximum effort, minimal result" sometimes becomes tiresome, but I am still intrigued by the great labor and time consumed for the work. The penciled sketch of the lady is so simple but feels beautiful. The only color in the film is the actual light blue liquid pouring from glass to glass. Watching this circular filmstrip is somewhat relaxing, and although Alÿs seems keen on paradoxes, this reassuring continuity may dispel the idea that the only thing constant is change. The final work I wish to address is "Tornado" (2000-10). This piece is a collection of footage from a gap of ten years. The artist films a dust storm passing through a field in Mexico City. He tries several times to run into the eye of the whirlwind. It is uncertain whether he is struggling to go inside or just teasing the audience. In between the clips of the footage there is a blank screen and a moment of calming quiet before the camera turns on again and a rip of roaring noise from the wind disturbs the silence. Reemphasizing the theme of great strength for no end, Alÿs demonstrates "man's repeated attempts to persist despite inevitable consequences" in this uncommon and peculiar tornado chase. Overall, I am intrigued by Francis Alÿs's work and his main concept, "sometimes making something leads to nothing." I am able to appreciate the unique ways in which he demonstrates this theme through film, newspaper clippings, bits of painted canvas and sculpture. The addition of variety increases my interest. I will admit, however, sometimes the films tend to be a bit repetitive, though it is the artist's intention.
Loved it!  I will return every time I visit Manhattan.  Definitely recommend.
As though this museum needs any more positive reviews. What can I say? It's the best. In addition to all the amazing art, of course, the space itself is terrific. It has great flow. It doesn't feel cumbersome. I never get tired there. In fact, I wish I could spend all day there. They also have a great cafe to laze around in and a beautiful courtyard. And on Friday evenings you can experience all this for free!
The gold standard museum for contemporary 20th century art. The only true rival in terms of collection is the Pompidou Center in Paris; and even then it's not that close. MoMA is a temple for disciples of modernism - a structure so perfect in its geometry of art, building, location and resources that it remains untouchable in its authority over what modern art is.
Love MoMA...a bit of a shocker but in a good way. A must for all! Personally not an artsy person but it was awe-inspiring. Lots of famous artists' works located here...
Do you have to be a picture to see a picture? this was the unavoidable question confronting me at MOMA'a member preview for the Monet water lillies exhibit. Seems like most of the people there thought so. the roar of the greasepaint, as they say. i say, there was a lot of makeup around, often startling in its dedication to facade. oh, so you think mj's face was cooolllll.... oh well. Monet's water lillies, or at least some of them, were displayed in a small room. of the 40 or so in existence, most are in Paris at the Orangerie in a setting designed by the great man himself. but a few have made it to the New World, beginning in 1955 MOMA had the insight to bring them in to contrast with the big abstract expressionist art they were mostly running with, which was a brilliant idea when you think about it. in this exhibit there was one big triptych and one big one-piece, which were stunning except that they are so familiar by now that there's just not much you can still discover about them. unless you're seeing them for the first time, but who is doing that these days? even the little boxes offered descriptions that basically said, here is a water lillies painting made out of paint that was inspired by the pond in the garden... there were also maybe five small panels, which were studies for the big ones and not intended for sale by Monet back then, who did not even sign them. his estate "stamped" a signature on them in 1950 when they released them. these panels were decent but i wouldn't caravan across a desert just to see them. maybe unsurprisingly, not many people went up to the second floor gallery for the viewing, in contrast to the Van Goghs that you had to wait in line for half an hour at the preview last year just to squeeze into the room. oh well. and for some reason the whole museum was not as jam packed as these events usually are. curious, but no problem. it was a beautiful night and the sculpture garden was really the place to be. the sunsetting sky was mottled with clouds tinged just slightly with purple and the blue behind those, and the glass walls were so polished that the world looked even better as a smokey reflection than reality. i was solo this time, so i was totally free to take everything in. and i mean everything. the kicker was the ipod. i love my ipod. i put the earbuds in, cranked it, and wandered. suddenly the event became my own private dream and i drifted around and just stared and stared. at the people. at the garden. at the buildings surrounding. at the sky. at the people. at the people. the art, as i said, was absorbed in about 15 minutes but there were three open bars, one of them outside in the garden. the drink special, in honor of monsieur monet, was a french sangria concoction. i remember at the dali event they were giving out a crazy blue thing that looked like a glass of carcinogen. the van gogh was something called death in the afternoon. MOMA rocks in so many ways. luckily i happened upon the one bartender that really did it up right, with the mixture, the cocktail shaker, the strawberry, and the little glass. the other guys just did a pitcher pour -- wait-- does anyone really care? ok, too much detail, but i kept coming back for four -- i mean more -- and soon i was pretty much tripping. i found one song* that MELDED and locked it into repeat for an hour and a half. it was WONDERFUL. i love ipods and i love MOMA parties with open bars. it's hard to describe how buzzy and sexy and trippy and fun it is to attend these MOMA receptions, all dressed up in your finest, making mental photographs of the suntanned super rich europeans with thick hair, skin you can practically taste, missoni color explosions and gold rings, old guys who used to be painters, old ladies who love to look at art and kvetch about it, young extremely ordinary office workers still searching for the reason they took being prep school debs so seriously, trying to make it work but looking increasingly alienated, automatic and empty despite the designer handbags, sex and the city fantasies and enough makeup to feed Africa. and of course, me, wandering about with my earbuds, french sangria, armani suit, balinese gold necklace, and liisa c's favorite watch. all in a night's work, y'all. if this isn't nice, what is? (*for the curious, it was Deliver Me by Robin Holcomb)
The MOMA is absolutely amazing! We took the train to NY just to go to see the Tim Burton exhibit (and get Shake Shack nom noms). The museum was packed! It was cold and rainy and still the line to get in went down a few blocks. We totally lucked out and happened to be walking behind someone with tickets they were not using. SCORE! We were tight on time and weren't able to see see the whole museum so we went right up to the exhibit. It was quite the awesome exhibit with tons of rooms showing Tim Burton's art over the years. The staff here is great and they do a great job keeping peeps from taking photos. I tried :(
MoMa, I would make out with you if you were a man. I wish you were more available. For free. And that you weren't so stingy with those expensive drinks out in the sculpture garden.
It would be easy to get lost here for days however after over 3 hours wandering it's dizzying array of galleries, I was done. Their collection is packed into a relatively small space made even smaller by the amount of people within it. Exhibits by artists like Van Gogh, Picasso, Klimt, Matisse, and Kandinsky are of course busier than others so be prepared to wait your turn if you'd like a closer look. Its also a bit difficult to navigate and overwhelming by the end if you don't do a little research and pick and choose what you want to see.   My friend and I picked up the pass that gets you a discounted admission to both Moma and the Top of the Rock, great deal and it saves you from a second tedious wait it line. Bonus for the fast lines at the coat check and numerous clean bathrooms.
I went today with my friend K.  It was $20 for admission - a bit steep for a museum.  We thought it was worth it.  Some very cool pieces here and lots of artists considered the greats of the 20th century:  Picasso, Rothko, Calder, Rodin, Leger.  There's an outdoor sculpture garden and six floors of paintings, sculptures and installations.  We especially liked the architecture and design section - some neat chairs, homes and other contraptions.  I wasn't too crazy about the photography section, but hey, to each their own - you may love it.  We left after about three hours b/c our feet got tired.  May go back to see the rest.
Don't go on a Tuesday because they are closed. Found out the hard way.
Didn't get to see everything that the MoMA has to offer but it was enough to make me want to go back. Very modern design and interesting artwork. Not necessarily diverse but it is everything you'd expect.
even though it took me a year and a half living here before i eventually went to the moma, i'd say it's one of the "must visit" museums if you're into the whole NYC museum thing. a couple of things that made my experience great: 1) student discount: now i know everyone isn't eligible for this, but it's $12 for students, which i felt was extremely worth it.  especially compared to some of the other museums that aren't nearly as extensive, but charge the same price or even more.  also, i heard there's some days/times that are free for everyone, which is even better, and less discriminating, than getting a student discount. 2) size: this place is huge.  there's five full floors of everything modern art.  paint, print, media, sculpture, etc.  whatever suits your fancy, i'm sure it's somewhere on one of the five floors. 3) tim burton: the exhibit only runs until the end of april, but it's pretty Awesome.  yea, Awesome with a capital A.  growing up in southern california suburbia definitely screwed with burton's mind, and his work clearly shows that.  the walls are covered with his drawings, from both his early career and recent movies; there's also edward scissorhands in all his glory, and some other costumes/sculptures from his movies.  like i said, pretty Awesome. if you're going to the TB exhibit, i'd suggest buying tickets online so you can choose an available time that won't be *as* crowded (it'll still be pretty packed though, esp if you're going on a weekend).  otherwise you might run the risk of it being sold out, and that would not be Awesome.
Being a novice traveler I now know that the student ID can go a long ways in museums, theaters etc. Not knowing what to expect I shelled out the $20 anyway. I had been to the Guggenheim a few days earlier and it was $18 for a so-so experience and I felt like I was taking another chance. I was very wrong. MoMA was worth every penny. I ended up spending a good 5hrs there including time for lunch at the cafe on the 2ND floor. Be warned, the food is a bit on the pricey side so for $30 you may find yourself only moderately full, however, it is still delicious. However, you tend to not notice those things while you meander through all the modern masterpieces that are on display or relax in the sculpture garden. Of all the places and things to go and see while in NYC I found the MoMA to be the most fulfilling experience of them all.
Everyone told me that I would love it WAY before stepping foot inside and to no surprise...they were right.  I spent hours and hours taking in all of the exhibits and relaxed outside in the sculpture garden.
a little bit of something for everyone. i will always love this place. the low brow, the high brow, the unibrow. walking in, trying to figure out where to go to first, my friend and i heard music blaring in the background. letting our ears guide us, we happened upon "looking at music 3.0"... one of the best exhibits, i've ever seen/heard in any museum. completely interactive, it was more like a trip down memory lane in your favorite record store. about a dozen or more headset posts were set up for you to listen to hip hop, rock and other musical stylings that helped usher in the newest social media to the people. in the middle, a large screen tv replayed 5 different videos, one of which is still my favorite of all time, a tribe called quest's "scenario". can anyone say how much fun it is to jam to "scenario" with an old lady on your right? from there, the contemporary art gallery was next. uber-iffic. always a great place to start a conversation. i.e. my, that big bale of hay is effervescent, isn't it?! the usual crowd pleasers - van gogh's starry night, warhol's campbell soup cans, matisse's dancers were all predictably spectacular. the other art that no one mentions is the people. this museum is one of the best people watching galleries there is in nyc. parents love to bring their children here to feed their budding young minds and impress upon them the importance of appreciating monet, manet and bales of hay. p.s. for the photographers, there are some places you can't shoot, special picasso gallery and on the top floor at the warhol film exhibit. p.p.s. if you have a bank of america card, you can go for free on the first weekend of every month.
go. love it. embrace what you know is art and what you know is straight --- uhm --- not art. feel… Read more »
If you live in New York and like art.  The 75 dollar membership fee is definitely worth it for the year round free admission to the spectacular permanent collection as well as wold class traveling exhibits.  The recent Munch exhibit was mind blowing!  Skip Friday nights as they tend to be too crowded to fully experience the art.  In addition, the free film screenings are a good entertainment during the dead heat of summer showing everything from Pixar to Woody Allen.
A Chinese man took all the worldly possessions his mother owned - soap bars, plastics bottles, shoes, boxes, Styrofoam containers, even pieces of her house - and laid them all out in a colossal display that allowed passersby to step through a woman's life and the collective values and culture of a national era. A Belgian artist decided that play-masks and death would occupy a large portion of his oeuvre. Someone else had the cool idea of having thousands of people who walked into a white-walled room record their height on the walls around them. Many, many heights later you see a perfectly straight line of averages cross through the room...statistics at work. Where else would we house these social experiments and visionary representations of life as we know it (and how it could be)? The MoMA in New York City joins world-class modern art museums in San Fran, Paris, Berlin, and London as an excellent space to see true modern creative genius at work.
We got in for free with a corporate affiliation discount. The museum had some pretty neat exhibits. On the top floor, it was all about nanotechnology and art. Some things were pretty neat, some things I didn't like and some things I didn't get. Anyway, it was pretty creative in that nano section. Then on to the rest of the museum. Lots of old...modern...paintings. 2 floors of paintings and sculptures. This part wasn't so exciting...and also, I don't understand how it is modern art, if it was painted a long time ago. Anyway, get there early and plan to spend about 4 hours.
I'll be honest... some of the art, I just didn't get. But overall, INCREDIBLE. Some of my favorites from Picasso, Van Gogh and Matisse were there. DO NOT MISS MATISSE'S "THE DANCE" BY THE STAIRS!!! It's so hidden away, I do not understand why such a famous work of art is not more conventionally displayed. You won't find it unless you regularly take the stairs (as opposed to the escalators) or are searching for it. Just FYI.
Who doesn't love MOMA?  Even the design of the place is breathtaking. My favorite part is the fourth and fifth floor with all the picassos, monets, and renoirs. They also have some great special exhibits.  Top off that you can go for free on Friday nights from 4 to 8 what's better?
Not for the feint-hearted or the types who say "My kid could make that." Some highlights for all include the Warhols, Pollocks, Monets, Picassos, and the original Starry Night. The rest will baffle those not familiar at some level with art history.
Fantastic museum. Definitely worth a trip! The Target Free Friday Nights are insane--the line will go halfway around the entire block, and it gets pretty hard to see the artwork with a dozen people in the way.  But it wasn't too bad--I got to see everything I wanted to see, and there are plenty of plush benches to sit on while waiting for the crowd around The Persistence of Memory to go away. The Dali exhibit was sizable and so enjoyable.  What a treat!  The other floors were great as well--seeing the actual pieces of the artists I learned about in school was kind of surreal and wonderful.  Places like MOMA make me want to live in NY.
This is mecca, folks. It simply doesn't get more jaw dropping than this monument to all that is modernism. While I realize it's not everyone's cup of tea, simply because modern art can be goofy, the historic stuff here is invaluable. I'm a fan of the dada and surrealist stuff, and they have gobs of it. From Man Ray to those tangentially associated with the movement. Of course, the classic stuff like Monet's "Water Lillies" are all here, but that stuff always just made me go "huh?" because I might agree that he had technique, but he  had the most boring subjects. I mean, water lilies? The new MOMA, designed by Yoshio Tanaguchi, is a marvel in and of itself. Clean, spacious and modern as befits its eponymous name and collection, the place is an outstanding way to spend the better part of a day. The one thing that's a bit of a put off is that it can be expensive, a little over twenty bucks for adults. But if modern art's your thing, then you owe it to yourself to visit the Halls of Valhalla. There's simply nothing like it.
New York lifestyle is to visit at least one museum if you ever come around this city. Its part of a culture of art, music and more art! MoMa was one of my spot on a Friday night, then to find out that on top of that when we got there to buy tickets that it was a free time slot. Woohoo! Even better.. This is very interesting as it attract endless amount of people here. It is a work out to walk the 5-6 floor of this place, so make sure you have on your dancing shoes.  There two floors I enjoy viewing more than the others, but since its such a large space, there plenty there. There other museum that I enjoy more but I am glad to have come here.
On my second visit here (well, I went to what I though was a tiny collection in the Queens site) I once again confirmed that one really needs at least a day to get through everything in this massive and overwhelming structure.  And that isn't including the exhibition which I couldn't see since it was so back up (Van Gogh of course).  This time I had the sinful but apparently allowable pleasure of photographing nearly all my favorite works ("no flash please") for the best screen savers ever.  Maybe its tacky but everyone was doing it!   Such a great museum where the diversity and view of the people was also a moment to cherish.  Return often!
The mere hour and a half that I got to spend here will not do the Museum justice but nevertheless I'm so glad that I got to spend some time here. No matter how small.
Best Museum in NYC hands down. Catch the Cindy Sherman exhibit while it's still there.  Brilliant.
It's a great place and there isn't much I can add that others haven't. However for those who go to CUNY schools or FIT, admission is free everyday of the week! So you don't have to wait on a long ass line on a Friday just to get your free cultural experience.
There is some weird shit in here that I swear I could make myself. There was a book that had what amounted to a hairy nipple on its cover. Life size.  Oh and a penis, that's right it would not be art if you got out of here without seeing  a penis. It's expensive, the majority of museums in DC are free, and so I don't understand why this is worth $20 a person.  I don't think I "get" modern art, and felt a lot of the items here were similar to what I saw at DC's artopolooza thing a few months ago where anyone could submit something. This place also doesn't appear to have a maximum capacity, as it was a rainy day and CROWDED AS HELL!
Just here the other night to sit in on the Pixar Lecture on Colorscript. Very nice layout, very clean and .. well modern lol, Each ticket includes admission to PS1, and if you go on friday, its free from 4-8
MoMA, I love thee so. Even though the Sculpture Garden and Sixth Floor Special Exhibits were closed this time around, the permanent collection still amazes me. My new favorite is a piece by Arman called "I Still Use Brushes," a collage of paint brushes with red handles. (Yes, it is way more impressive than how I'm describing it, so I've uploaded a photo to help me out a bit.) As opposed to the Met, where I have the same favorites almost every time I visit, I find new works to love every time I visit the MoMA .
Definitely go on Free Friday night from 4-8.  Get there early, yah the line is long, but it moves fast.  Yah it's crowded inside, but it's not worth the $20 AT ALL.  We went through everything in about an hour.  Again, not a huge fan of modern art, but I thought the exhibits at SFMOMA were way better.  There were a couple of cool paintings here, but I think I had already seen all the Picassos in SF when they had that exhibit.  I would have rather spent this time at the Met for sure.
if i could choose a place to die, it'd be here. such an amazing musuem.  i came here on a free friday and saw the amazing flower lilies painting by monet that spanned at least 50 feet, the munch exhibit, the dali, the funky architecture pieces, the van gough.  everything is here.  now if only they had more andy warhol pieces...
I'm  lovin' me some MOMA. My cousin and I came to visit his mom and we just had a ball checkin' out all the museums in NYC. Typical tourists. Funny thing how the MOMA can bring people from around the USA and the world in one place. I love the art and layout of the museum. Met a friend there I haven't seen in years! Small world, I tell ya. Art brings us togetha'!
Ha ha. I went to MoMA thinking I was going to the Met. I get confused sometimes...anyways, MoMA was pretty good anyway. They have a Dali exhibit, as of now, I think. Its kind of pricey ($20) but is worth it. Check out the sculptures.
COOL!!!  Okay, where to begin? This place has something for everyone. If you're not into photography maybe you like giant replicas of city bazaars or mayhaps a weird robot ballet video. It can be overwhelming, but the way in which the galleries are placed on different floors makes navigation fairly easy. I really liked the whole layout actually: smooth, light colored wood floors and high white walls made it the perfect modern gallery space. I have too many favorites to count. I was absolutely flabbergasted by a piece entitled, "Penis Hat", a floor to ceiling drawing of a man with a penis for a hat. Puzzling? Yes. Hilarious? Yes. Even if you're thrown by some pieces other are so darn cool! This place is awesome, and no matter what you see it makes you think.
Awesome collections. I just didn't connect with many of the exhibits. The 4th floor is amazing having many of the "classic" modern art heroes like Picasso, Magritte, and Modigliani.
Fair disclosure, I'm not the biggest fan of contemporary art. That said, the MOMA does a good job at convincing me to become one. Setting aside any reviews of the art itself, I love the layout here. The first few floors, where the rotating exhibits are located, are very conducive to wandering and you never know where you might find yourself. The permanent collections on the upper floors are decidedly impressive, but you don't need me to tell you that. Overall, the museum feels fresh and is a breeze to wander around. The only negative are the all-too-serious people working the ticket counter. But really, what's there to complain about? A cannot miss.
Amazing! I went here expecting one thing, and was just completely blown away. I could spend a week here if i could. It's not just the art, but the artifacts. You get a real sense of history here.
One of my favorite museums in NYC! MoMA is THE place for the finest and most influential pieces of modern art. You will find yourself immersed and up close with the masters of the art - Matisse, Picasso, Dali, as well as Van Gogh and Andy Warhol. The best and the finest artworks from the 20th and 21st century are housed here. Definitely a must see! General admission is $20 but free on Fridays after 4.
Saw the Dada show in August---fabulous show! Second time to this museum and was not diasppointed. Great collections, layout, and the food at the cafe was outstanding. Go back for the art AND the food. Service was top-notch!
Love how big this place is, its awesome! Was in a rush and a little crowded but a must see when u are in NY.
I love modern art, especially at MoMA! Definitely a place you can come back to again and again. Hoping to someday get a chance to dine at The Modern. :)
Really great museum!
I'm more of  a fan of the contemporary than the modern, but this place is always a treat.  I always come out with something I want to look more into later on the Internet.  Plus the store is always fun too.
great when u can get into these exhibits via vip style... otherwise its mad chaos on fridays... went to the tim burton exhibit... was expecting more of a fantasy popup type museum that you interact through... but got to see into his drawings and see how messed up his thoughts were... which was interesting... but the exhibit was kinda lacking... barely took up a floor went to another private opening on the 8th floor... again... yogurt cups on a wall is art?  the things people do to say it is art at this museum mind boggles me... but yet people come again and again... eh not my preference thanks!
cool that its free on friday evenings but i guess i just don't really remember any exhibits that… Read more »
Sets the bar for all other "MoMA's"
Breathtaking. If you've ever taken an art history class, half of the paintings you saw in your textbooks are here. And there is simply no comparison to masterwork art seen in person. I agree that the layout isn't ideal, but it's totally possible to navigate without missing anything. I can't complain about admission, because my student I.D. is my perpetual go-to on any vacation and they do offer free admission Fridays 4p-8p, but really, it's a museum where the art stays with you and you are better for having viewed it, so I feel the payment is wholly worth it.
Yes, the MOMA is beautiful and has a fabulous collection.  The building is lovely but it gave me vertigo, I was definitely dizzy for a bit of my visit.  The people working the ticket counter weren't pleasant at all, and actually, didn't say a word.  I found the shop attached to the store overcrowded and there wasn't enough staff to deal with all the customers (I wouldn't want to be there to clean the store at the end of the night).
The best was the 4th floor.....Starry Night..... Give yourself a lot of time because you can literally spend a entire day here.
cmon now its MOMA.  see the famous "starry night" by van gough, but dont get too close, security is nearby to keep folks in check.  you  can also catch salvador dali's melting clocks painting, warhol's campbell soup cans, picasso, pollock, even a wyeth and a couple of edward hoppers. i recommend going during regular business hours if you want to take your time and appreciate the art their hold.  because the free fridays after 4pm is just not worth it....ya its free...but in the end the trade off is a headache, thirst, and sore legs from fast pacing and information overload. no flash photography.  that means no flash.
I found this museum fairly hard to navigate in an effective, efficient manner.  However, the amazing art found inside is just all too good to pass up.  A visit to MoMA is undoubtedly worth your time.
It is so cool to go here after attending art school and see the pages of my art history book come alive.  Modern art, esp. abstract expressionism, has always been my favorite, and the Pollock paintings alone are enough to blow me away.  Warhol, Picasso, Magritte, pretty much whatever you want is here.  It's pretty cool to see that Modrian's paintings aren't really as perfect-looking as they look in tiny book reproductions.  Unfortunately, I just missed my favorite, Yves Klein, who is in the collection, but I guess was in storage.  Someday, Yves, someday...
New York's MoMA is without question one of the better modern art museums in the world.  The collection is unmatched, offering a good assortment of familiar "modern" classics (Starry Night, loads of Picasso, Dali, Warhol) as well as some more unusual and experimental modern and pop art (think Dan Flavin, Eva Hesse, etc).  The lay out of the museum could be somewhat better, as it is definitely possible to get through a wing and realize you have missed a room.  And I can't wrap my head around spending $20 to get into a museum after having been spoiled by the free museums in London.  Still, it's an experience that should not be missed by any visitor or native to Manhattan.
I'm not particularly interested in art, but I found MOMA to be quite entertaining.  They have these portable speaker things that all you have to do is type in the number on the exhibit you'd like to hear more about and it gives you a brief history.  I am not too sure how often they change their exhibits, but I can't imagine coming here more than once or twice a year to fully appreciate all the art.
The absolute worst tourists come here to gather in annoying clumps, like cholesterol in your veins. Great works are on display, if you can see them over the cell phone/digital cameras that poke up from the crowd and snap/flash a picture every .002 seconds. Art is appreciated from a short distance, not 3-6 inches away. Starry Night, forget it. The Dalis are less crowded and Picasso's 3 Musicians is routinely ignored. The layout is ok, but you can't 'work' a room easily with all the middle walls. You'll get the same crowd if you pay or get on line for Free Fridays, so save your $ and wait.
I don't like most modern art. Some of the stuff here is good and not such modern BS art, but I just prefer the Met. Plus, the price tag on entry here is absolutely brutal! the free hours help, but they don't soften the blow. The Met is plain ole better.
MoMA is one of those places that most either flat out love or hate, but I think I'm actually right in the middle. It's all objective (or is that subjective?) when it comes to the actual art on display here. Some of it you'll find either beautiful, provocative, disturbing, funny, thought provoking, or any combination of emotions. Some other works, you'll be scratching your head thinking, "what the f@#$? THAT'S art? I could do better!" Which is also great, because maybe it'll inspire you to create the next masterpiece. As for the museum itself, MoMA's renovations a few years back definitely gave the art more viewing room, but some spaces are so vast that it's hard to connect with the works. I would imagine the reason was to allow as many visitors as possible, but that can be just as distracting as a small crowded room. Try to find the "off-peak" time to go, when the volume of visitors is at it's lowest ( a side note: how cool would it be if you could have an afternoon or evening in a museum by yourself? I dream of that). $20 for admission isn't too bad, and you'll spend at least 2 hours checking it all out (depending on your like and/or tolerance of modern art). MoMA is definitely worth checking out at least once in your life....maybe you'll love it and make it a frequent stop, or maybe you'll be frightened and never want to see art again.
MOMA is awesome and it's unfortunate I didn't have enough time to spend there.  SFMOMA pales in comparison.  I love the open airiness of the spaces throughout this museum.  I think it's sort of cool that they allow photography in most of the exhibits, but I hate that some people are too ignorant or unobservant (there are signs everywhere) to not turn off their flash.  Even though I don't know the next time I'll be in New York, I'm tempted to purchase an out-of-towner membership to MOMA.
A definite must for anyone visiting New York. Even if you're not into art, you'll find something here to appreciate it. I won't go into detail about Starry Night because you just have to see it up close for yourself. It's absolutely breathtaking. There's a sense of peace that I think many feel and relate to when they look at it. You really just need to see it. I won't even really talk about the famous works by Picasso, Dali (except one), or Warhol. I'm pretty sure that they're known the world over, and there's plenty of reviews to let you know what I've been saying in this paragraph. JUST GO! Anyway, here are a few highlights from my 4 hour stay at MoMA: an exhibition where music from the late 70s to early 80s and art collide. Musicians include Blondie, The Ramones, Patti Smith, and Fab 5 Freddy to name a few. The exhibition had headphones for you to listen to the music while you viewed the corresponding art piece. I thought a Basquiat piece and a hip hop song by Rammellzee and K-Rob called Beat Bop really meshed well due to the raw detail of the graffiti piece and the honest poetic flow of the music. A performance piece by Roman Ondak called Measuring the Universe; it's right next to the music exhibition. Guests are invited to have their name written on the walls according to their height. It's so cool to see how the piece has taken it's own shape and continues to form differently everyday. An exhibition of modern design furniture. There were a number of Eames chairs that I've always wanted to see; those chairs are constantly replicated, but I don't think it can be matched to the original. I laughed at the Sweet Dreams Security with heart shaped padlocks, and ducks and bunnies for railheads. I think you can actually purchase a Sweet Dreams Security Gate. They apparently have an online store? Btw, I never realized how phallic art is. There is also an Art Erotica space too. Penis everywhere. My favorite piece was Retrospective Bust of a Woman by Dali. There is a long piece of bread that sits atop the woman's head that is supposed to represent the penis. Ants are crawling on her face which is a means to say that women need to be eaten. Oh! And if you want more penis, you'll find one hanging from the ceiling, can't miss it. Parents watch your kids. Some art pieces are furniture but they are definitely not meant to be used. I saw a kid get chewed out by one of the guards in front of his mother. Awkward.
The MOMA is amazing!  The  best collection of modern art I've seen hands down.  It's easy to move through even on a touristy weekend, ticket prices are totally reasonable and the shop has loads of cool stuff.  A bonus is the building itself - amazing!!  A must see in my opinion.
saw the 'dali and cinema' exhibit the other day.  very well put together.  semi crowded (i went at noon on a thursday). $20 ticket, $16 for students and i think there is a senior citizen discount too.  i was there for about 3 hours, not too long to start getting annoyed by the crowds but long enough to see most of the exhibits and galleries i wanted to get to. obviously it's worth checking out if you havent ever gone.
One of the best collections of great art in one place I have ever seen in my life. You could go once a week all year and easily see something new. Love this place
A must see! Go in the middle of the week in order to avoid crowds. Great prices in the store as well.
Pretty rad. I used to be a member--which was awesome because it meant free movies, of which I definitly took advantage of. The movies they show are incredible, sometimes illogical, but always fun to watch.
I recently visited MoMA on a visit to New York, and I was impressed from the minute I walked in the door.  Of course I had to wait in line, but it was so organized and moved very quickly (props to the staff!).  Also glad that they had a student price, as I always enjoy saving a few pennies on my college student budget.  Coat check, also very helpful.  As far as the collection goes, I was in awe of everything!  There is definitely something for everyone here.  You could spend a whole day here!
Best way to tour the museum is to start from the top floor and make your way back down. DO NOT skip the garden patio or the second floor cafeteria!!! You've GOT to order the TIRAMISU that comes in the wobbly cup. It's just HEAVENLY!!! If you're craving something savory --- order the portabello panini.
So people might read this and think I'm a hater, but I LOVE art.  Unfortunately for me, MoMA was overrated, so I'm a slight MoMA hater???  And this is really disappointing because I could not wait to go here!  Out of the 6 floors, only 4 and 5 were worthwhile to me--I am admittedly into paintings over architectural works, so I enjoyed Klimt, James Ensor, Warhol, Van Gogh, and the likes.  The other floors were a combo of overly abstract and overly simple, I was pretty sure I made some of those in the 3rd grade--they might have raided all of the crap from my elementary school years.  Still an experience since art is in the eye of the beholder, so I'm glad I went.  I wouldn't deter anyone from going, but this museum gets a ton of hype so I think expectations are super high when you go to this museum.
This is the coolest museum I've been to so far.  Just check their web site to see what they have on display. Bring your friends and family here to enjoy all the artwork and stay cool indoor.
Skip the first 4 floors. Tupperware? Seriously. I have that in my kitchen. Tupperware oes not belong in the same building as Monet, Miro and Manet. Head straight for the impressionists. I found the Matisse collection  most compelling. And WTF is up with emo hipster kid making noises on the teevee? There are other good museums that specialize in what you like, whatever that may be. The Moma is a the walmart of museums. Find a museum that specializes in something you like-- it may cost you more, but maybe not. Worth the cost. If you absolutely have to go, get the top of the rock Moma pass and save some cash.
MoMA has one of the great collections of the world, and they lay them out in galleries (and a garden) that are richly conceived and organized to create an interesting narrative about and between the works. I still vividly recall the wonderful Matisse-Picasso exhibition of 2003, but this year's de Kooning retrospective was at least as good. This was truly an event! Never before has such a large number of works from across his career been assembled in to one exhibit, which was laid out broadly chronologically, but with wise "fudges" and exceptions to that when aesthetic groupings seemed more pertinent to establishing a continuity and dialogue between the works. If you value the works of Western visual artists from the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries, MoMA must surely be among the important destinations in the world. (Beware, though, the throngs of "art-tourists" during peak hours who seem to place more value on being photographed in front of important works than the works themselves. What an odd species we are!)
Coming from someone with an art and art history degree, trust me! If you have any appreciation for modern art; whether it fascinates, disgusts, or intrigues you in some way check it out. Its at your finger tips and is one of the most impressive collections in the world.
Great specality exhibition of Van Gough and Picasso on the 5th floor. I was amazing to see these pieces in person.
I admit it, I am not a fan of modern art BUT boy oh boy is the cafe on 2 in there unbelievable for a tourist place it's unheard of!  Our party of 6 had 6 different items each of which were incredible. The cold cured meat platter, warm sandwiches, yummy salads  all great, so fresh and tasty. I just wish you can get to it w/o paying the admission!
I love this museum especially since the remodel, love the shop to!
One of my favorite places in NY, but you gotta be there early to be able to check it all out. Make sure to check out Francis Alÿs work and Picasso collection at the 5th floor.
It is with trepidation that I ventured into MoMA last Sunday.  I have never considered myself a connoisseur of "modern art" and I had avoided going to the MoMA because I thought it would be a little too abstract for me.  However, I was pleasantly surprised with the MoMA.  It features not only abstract modern art, but a lot of other interesting exhibitions such as product design, materials, electronic arts, etc.  It is also not as pretentious as other museums in the city.  They let you photograph almost everything.  The lines to get in can be long, but I was able to use my student ID to get in free and even avoid the regular ticket lines.  In the end, the two hours that I had allocated for MoMA were woefully inadequate, even for someone like me who does not like to ponder on one display for too long.
Worth a ten year wait to see.   The pieces are amazing and the staff is knowledgeable.
The new and improved MOMA still houses the modern classics you know (or probably don't) and love.  Lots of Picassos, Miro mobiles, etc. Many avant-garde sites to open and expand your perception of art.  Their dining options fit the new setting.  If the $20 (worth it) admission makes you balk, Target sponsors Free Fridays after 4pm.
I love love love MoMa. I love coming here and getting inspired by other artists. I love MoMa's Teen Friday Nights, they're free and there's free pizza. Pashaz, it's a double win. Haha. Other than that, this is a great place for a date. But only if your date's into art, otherwise this place is off limits. Every exhibit is interesting and special in its own way. Time surely flies when you're checking out art. I spent a good 5 hours in here. Also if you do come for a date, after checking out MoMa you could walk to Times Square for dinner and call it a night.
My 4 yeay old daughter has already been here twice - and we all LOVE it.  A cultural treasure of art and sculpture that is quite simply not to be missed.  Worth Several VISITS.
Of course I'm giving this museum 5 stars. What did you expect? This is like the Hall of Fame for art. What an amazing amazing spot. So many artists here I won't even begin to try and name any, you really will just have to go and see for yourself. There's so much to see here, I really recommend a couple trips to make it worthwhile. The only conceivable way that the experience here could be improved at all would be if they installed a zero gravity unit and you could float through the museum. Yeah, that would rule.
IT is by far my favorite museum in the city. The art is phenomenal, and the cafes and restaurants have great food! I love the museum store as well, many cute and innovative gifts.  It does take a while to get through the floors of art but it's not physically and emotionally drowning like The Met is.
I'm not really into museums but felt like I needed to hit a museum during my recent trip to NYC.  The price is good ($20) and I probably spent 45 mins in there tops, mainly because I had somewhere else that I wanted to go and didn't have the time (or patience) for the audio tour.  I was there during the day on a Friday and it's wasn't too busy.  Most of the art was really interested but some of it makes me wonder why I can't be an artist.  One piece was a pink fluorescent light in the corner titled, "pink light in the corner".  That's art?
I love modern art, so I was quite excited to go here. I started at the fifth floor an made my way down. Unfortunately, the fifth floor was amazing, and as I worked my way down, I realized that while the fifth floor was incredible, the fourth was only slightly amazing, and the third was just good, and so on. I would never skip this museum, but I guess I was just expecting a little more.
Since its renovation, hot damn - MoMa has jacked up their price and had millions of people walk through their doors. Its HUGE! I haven't even finished walking through the place (that's why it's missing one star). I love it. They really knew what was up.
Am I a jerk or something? I visited MOMA after it's mega-massive renovations and left the place wondering what all the hype about this place was about? Was this what I was waiting to see? I was not impressed.  I definitely prefer The Met over this museum.  Sorry but I'll be ok if I never visit again.  Once is more than enough.
stark and minimalist. how does one beat free?  go during target sponsored friday evenings after 4pm.  woot!  beware of the long line!
it's definitely a place ppl must visit! Amazing paintings, pics and unbelievable videos.
NYC is a great place to spend a day by yourself.  The MoMA is a great place to spend that day.
Swoon. Furniture as design, design as furniture, furniture as furniture, design as design. My head was spinning from all the examples of well designed objects. Sure, the museum has Van Goghs, Picassos, Rothkos and loads of other amazing works of art (although not enough Magrittes for my taste) The real draw to the Moma is the everyday objects, the classic mac, the eames chair, the OXO good grips tools. I wish this is what everyday life looked like.
Whenever I walk into a museum in NY, I remember why I envy New Yorkers so much.  To be able to visit Picassos, Van Goughs, Monets, and Pollocks whenever you damn please?!?  Bastards.
Yes, 3 stars for a museum. I am sorry but I am just not into modern or contemporary art.
i love to pop in to the museum of modern art whenever i am in town for a shoot or just fun. it does get a little crowded during the weekends (and i hate crowds!), but that's when i sneak off to other museums that are less well known. tip: always check their schedule as you don't want to hit this place when there's an exhibit that's about to end. it gets cwazzzy and you'll want to hate it. but moma, i still love you! ~SL
Arriving in New York I wasn't entirely familiar with the contents of the local museums.  I knew the Guggenheim and the MoMA are extremely famous, but I never knew why.  My art major girl friend was very excited to check it out so we gave it a go. First off, if you're a student make sure you ask for the student price.  You need to have a valid student ID, they are very particular about examining the dates on the ID. It took quite a bit of explaining to convince the teller that we were current students despite the lack of dates on our SDSU Red IDs.  Having an ISIC card would nullify this problem, or you could just rely on your rhetorical ability.  In the end we saved about $8 on the ticket, well worth the confusion. Though there are some interesting things to look at, particularly the photography bit, the first three floors are filler.  On a tight schedule head directly to the fourth and fifth floors, where the Picassos, Dalis Warhols, Pollacks, and Van Goghs are on display.  We had to jog through this part of the museum before it closed as we had wasted so much time on the first three floors.  If I return to the MoMA I will start at the top and work my way down, that way, when the museum fatigue sets in I won't feel bad about leaving before seeing everything. PROTIP: They include 10% gratuity in the second floor café, called Café 2.  The Café is counter serve, and they include a tip line on the credit card receipt as well.  Be aware that you have already tipped 10% when you sign your receipt. If you want to see the whole museum, plan on arriving at least 2  1/2 hours before close.   A+++++ would art look again.
A New York City Institution and an Upper West Side Tradition!  Friday nights free admission from 4 pm - 8 pm!  Had glass of wine in the outdoor garden and then checked out the special exhibit from artist Cindy Sherman....the museum is amazing....amazing.....amazing!!!
I could stay here all day even though it is a cluster fvck sometimes, always something new, even if it's old school modern. I could look for hours at all the collections, Pollock was amazing, Warhol phenomenal, and Tim Burton? The Bomb. I can only hope of Banksy someday.
One of my favorite places in the world.
If I could, I'd quit my job, move to NY and work as a janitor at the MOMA.  For free.
MoMA was one thing I really wanted to see while I was in New York, and I'm really glad I did. I was there for five full hours slowly wandering around the place, doing my best to read most of the placards and stop to soak in the pieces that really caught my attention. I thought I saw everything, but when I was looking at the postcards in the gift shop on my way out, I realized that there were things I either missed or didn't pay attention to. It's huge and the collection is amazing...five hours was hardly enough.
Okay, I may not be as artsy as I thought because I just didn't understand some of the exhibits in this otherwise great museum.  Three basketballs floating in a tank of water?  What's that all about?  However, the museum does have some great exhibits as well (the van Gogh and Warhol pieces just to name a few).  I love bringing City-visitors here because it's a unique way of showing them the quirkiness of NYC in a mere few hours.  Oh, and be sure to go on a Friday evening--it's free!
the Monet piece I wanted to see was on a loan out.... this made me sad :( the museum is lovely, very modern and rather posh! you need a whole day to explore this place because it is so big. lots and lots of picasso!!
I'm in love with MoMA, I could literally spend eternity in this place. The Kentridge exhibit is wonderful! The series he did on The Nose (based off of Gogol) is phenomenal, the projections of his drawings (stop motion etc) make you feel like you're in the middle of a really fantastic dream when you stand in the center of the room and take it all in. Extremely impressive. Marina Abramovic: The Artist is present was everything I anticipated it would be (I mean this in a good way), a full assault on the senses. I stood and watched her sitting still across from a gentleman (volunteer, you too may sign up to sit with her) who was moved to tears. It was beautiful. However, of course there were museum goers that were not equipped with the maturity to deal with nudes. For example, a slovenly, imbecile of a man insisted on walking to the front of the room to get as close as possible to one of the nudes and proceeded to smile and wave. For those of you that prefer to point and do the whole 'ooh that's pretty" thing, there is plenty for you to see as well. My brother, for one, whom I brought with me on my last visit was more enamored with the Warhols and Lichtensteins than any of the aforementioned (which he forced me to play curator with - what's that? what does that mean? how? why is she doing that?) . Get to MoMA Kiddies!!
I climbed my way up 4 floors during tffn time. the entrance works were mesmerizing functional terraniums in oblong and spherical shapes that you would expect out of a cirque du soleil production that look especially impressive lit up at night. there were so many sights to see: dorothea lange was among my fave photo series shown in its self-speaking contrast of emotions on the very ends of the pendulum. i enjoyed picasso's girl before a mirror, matisse's dream, van gogh's and seurat's pieces. i'm not well-versed in the most contemporary art, but i do appreciate wartime posters such as those in the kitchen exhibit. the most rare works to my recollection were the wall-to-wall monet displays sequestered in an offshoot room and the block color display of several shades of black that appear to be a monochromatic black at first fixation. i thought the audio walkthroughs were beyond exceptional for the two paintings that i chose to listen to due to time constraints - i felt as if i was simultaneously zooming in and stepping back to look at each of the paintings, not to mention getting an inside look at an artist's sometimes much-more-mundane real life.
If I lived in New York this would be the museum I'd visit again and again and again...
The collecton  is so impressive. There is so much to see and every piece was as exquisite as it can get. Prepare to spend at least a whole day there. Or, if you are lucky to live closed to the museum, you have to come back again and again. When I went a couple weeks ago, there was a Monet exhibit.  I loved everything I saw and hope to go back very soon.
It's huge & impressive, just like everyone else has mentioned...but I wish someone would have warned me about the crowds... Granted, I was a tourist too...but I still hate other tourists...well, just the overly touristy ones. They just about ruined it for me. ...the noise...the running around...the immature preteens...the people who need to go back to kindergarten to learn what an inside voice is...the frequent invasion of my personal space...all these things are good in their own time in place (I guess...) but not in an art museum...I was reminded why I don't like people... So go....just not on a weekend....unless you're a noisy preteen who runs around and invades personal space...then I guess you're good.
This is not just the best art museum in NY; it's the best in the Western Hemisphere.  The Met is larger, but full of secondary works.  Any major museum in Europe is better.  The Palace Museum in Taipei is much better for Chinese art.  But for Modern Art, there is none better than MoMA.  It has to do wealth and ascendancy of America during the 20th Century.   Much of the great art of that period ended up in US hands. True that much of the stuff at MoMA is crap that a child could do, but even that stuff is worth a laugh.
In general a great museum. I think I would have enjoyed it a lot more if it wasn't so packed and loud.
Great place to visit if you have 2 or 3 hours to look around and if you can ignore the frequency of suited staff following you around as if you were a thief in a grocery store. What is that about? Very off putting and unprofessional. Do they seriously think people are going to try an walk off with a 500lb marble statue, break into a glass display to take an effigy of a God or tear a painting from the walls of the gallery?
Out of all the museums I went to in NYC I loved this one the best :)
What can I say, this is one of the greatest collections in the world.  I do wish they had more Dali works; his paintings are by FAR my favorite.  The MoMA experience is often enhanced by some cool, live music.
If you go to one museum in New York City, make it the flamboyant MoMA. It's free on Friday afternoons. If you're in a rush, head straight for modern art a-listers Monet, Mondrian, Dali, Picasso Manet and Van Gogh on the fourth floor.
After going to the Gug, and seeing how i paid for a normal price to view just one exhibit, and then going to MOMA this museum was a billion times better.  A wide range of Art exhibits and most are pretty interesting, although some i wonder how it came to become art, but then again to each their own.  I'd def be going back.
The MOMA is well worth the price of admission.  Fridays are currently offering free afternoon admission, courtesy of Target.  The current Van Gogh exhibition is small, but worth seeing "Starry Nights".   If you can become a member of MOMA, offering you the ability to cut lines, get MOMA store discounts and not wait for special exhibits.  The Cafe on 2 is always a welcome break from the walking.  Great coffee, paninis, and snacks make it a better choice for low-key dining after being cultural.  Did you know that the MOMA offers free WiFi as well?  For the price of 4 lattes, I'd rather have my coffee with extra culture please. :)
DW and I have been wanting to go here for years...  I'm currently taking a course on Modern Art and the prof. suggested we go here for a field trip (I know, field trips are so 4th grade!)  Anyway, I was a little peeved that we wouldn't get to see Starry Night and The Persistance of Memory (both are out on loan) but we couldn't complain since we got in for free!  We did get to enjoy a ton of other works (Cezanne, Rousseau, Chagall) that are the very definition of Modert Art.  The DaDa period is also well represented with works from DuChamp and the Warhol \ Jasper Johns works were some of our faves.  Our interest kinda fained by the time we made it to the lower floors with contemporary art and architecture so I don't have much on that.  The upper two floors are well worth the price of admission.  I can't wait to go back!
love everything about this place. only got an hour and a half here today before closing time, and it wasn't nearly enough time to see and enjoy everything moma had to offer. check out "a shimmer of possibility", photographs by paul graham. he went around the u.s. and took pictures of individuals in different places and stages of life.  also "one year performance" featuring tehching hsieh - the man did a series of one year performances, and the one featured here is where he locked himself in a cage for a year, taking a picture of himself each year. i found both to be incredibly moving and thought-provoking. both there through may 18.
I took advantage of the free Friday night entry (from 4pm to 8pm).  It was understandably busy, but the crowds did not detract from my enjoyment of this elegantly designed museum.  I must admit that the first few pieces of art made me think, "Wow I must not like modern art."  However, by the end of my stay, I had experienced so many different styles (with some truly amazing work) that I came away with an overall appreciation for all of it.
In terms of offerings and exhibits, MoMA is my favorite NYC museum. Wow... that's a bold statement... but, it's true, I always find something new and interesting on my visits. And the Target Free Friday Nights are a steal.
wow. the moma is one of the reasons NY is NY. where else can you go and see amazing originals (cezanne, pizasso, roy lichtenstein, kandinsky...) and new cool installations/industrial designs all in one place?? it's quite overstimulating in there, i must say. i just went back after not going to the moma since high school and was blown away with everything inside those white walls. hell, even the way the open stairs windows are designed are beautiful. of course, some modern art is debatable ("this trash can symbolizes the suffering of my people...") mostly, there is a lot of really interesting and cool works. and they always have cool exhibits - i was really impressed with the ron arad industrial design exhibit. so cooooool. it's free admission fridays 4-8, and it was definitely a zoo in there. my friends and i all agree though, this is definitely a fantasy place to hit on people/get hit on. so many cute and artsy individuals! hehe.
If it weren't for the Tim Burton exhibit, I would be just fine never stepping foot into this place. I'm a more "traditional" museum go-er (I prefer the Met) so maybe that's why the rest of MoMA rubbed me the wrong way. Call me old-fashioned or narrow minded but I actually got frustrated and insulted that some of these pieces are even allowed to be hung up somewhere to be marveled at. I was willing to give the rest of the exhibits a try, and we ventured into as many spaces we could manage (seriously, this place is confusing!) and I cannot find any appreciation for most of the pieces or exhibitions being featured. Some things were so ridiculous my friends and I could only laugh or roll our eyes. Maybe I'm being a snob, or maybe I'm just keeping it real here..I don't see how a self-lubricating plastic tray with a faded piece of paper stuck in the middle is considered art of any kind. I didn't find that staring contest on the 1st floor a good use of that giant space, either. Nor did I really "get" Marina Abramovic's features on the 6th floor. I don't have issues with nudity, but I don't understand why anybody would want to see a naked person running into a pillar or into another naked person at full speed. I don't mean to be disrespectful to "The Artist" but seriously, it pissed me off that I went all the way up to the 6th floor for that nonsense. Picasso and the view from the outdoor garden are probably the only saving graces of MoMA. Just not my cup of tea, sorry.
I think the fact that this Museum has over 500 reviews and still managed to stay above a 4 star rating speaks for itself. However, I made the mistake of visiting on a Target sponsored day when the weather was just maddening hot outside so the entire Museum was packed. It was to the point where I felt like I was in a crowded bar or concert and almost got shoved to move forward a couple of times. This made looking at the actual art pieces incredibly difficult. Yes, we saved 20 bucks each but barely got to enjoy the Museum or find the exhibits we really wanted to see.
i got lucky and got corporate tickets and even got to go to the special exhibit.  sadly, i don't remember who. hehe. this museum is very different from the met. i enjoyed a lot of the artwork here. the wish tree was probably the most memorable thing though and the cool backdrop where the lighting changes (you get a cool picture) maybe because the people i went with wasn't as great (because of a certain person) and i was crippled, i didn't get to enjoy this museum as much as i should of.
Always an incredible experience! GO if you can, as often as you can!
Love the Moma! What can you say, it's a day of culture and fun. Always something new to see and explore.
So I have been to almost every major musuem in Europe and have seen a lot of the pieces that people have told me to pay attention to.  Visiting the MET and MoMa pretty much rounded out the pieces I needed to see.  Amazing!!  They had starry night on display here as well as well know Picasso, Pollock, and Warhol pieces.  We did went through all of the well known exhibits in 1 hour and you can too.  Highly recommend this to people visiting from outside of New York.
Four stars for the display of works by the 'masters'. Go straight to the fourth floor. Amazing to see Monet's Water Lilies, Picasso, Dali and other great works. The building itself is beautiful too!
Our first visit to the MoMA and we will be back! The Friday we went was just perfect, not too many visitors on that day. Make sure to check out the museum shop across the street.
I love this museum so much i had to join. I have seen so much great art here throughout the years, first as a tourist, then as new resident coming in comp'd on Friday nights (thanks Target!!).  I love the exhibits its so 4 dimensional.  Art, design, performance art, music, movies.  Andy Warhol's screen tests were amazing as was Marina's The Artist is Present.  I always feel so connected to New York when I'm here. I love the member's only previews and scurrying past the ticket booth card in hand. Membership is great: provides you access here (you can bring friends along for $5) and at PS1 in LIC (including their Saturday Sessions).  The German Expressionists and New York Abstract Expressionists that are on exhibit right now was great. I think i need to go take a look at that again....
Massive.  You can easily loose hours on a single floor or section of a floor trying to take in all of the exhibits.  My personal favorite is the contemporary art.  Very edgy, progressive, taxing on the mind.  Don't come here after a night of partying thinking it will be calm and relaxing like I did.  I was too tired to be able to think as clearly as I wanted too.  I was still overwhelmed however by the beauty of this place.  I took pictures and videos on my phone, hopefully I can get them onto this page soon.
I fell in love with Ryan McGinness' work here.  I don't remember much else.
amazing! everytime i visit new york, i HAVE to come to moma. the art is always sooo inspirational. this time the rooms were themed with patterns, nature, post modernism, colors, design, furniture, and futuristic concepts. thank you moma for introducing me to artists like david shrigley and kara walker. i have no complaints or wil ever have any for this moma or the san francisco moma. well done. my $20 were well spent.
Quite simply one of my favorite places on this earth.
When a museum has a sweet motorcycle AND a Dyson vacuum cleaner on display, I'm there.  Not to mention a fantastic exhibit on turning landfills into city parks (who knew Crissy Field was a landfill?).  Friday's after 4pm are free.
I was blown away by this museum.  I'm not really knowledgeable about this stuff, but I do attend art museums several times a year and have visited Tate Modern, ICA Boston, and MOMA SF.  The size, depth and quality of this institution was way beyond my expectations for any 'modern" art museum--from 19th century Monet and Van Gogh (unexpected) to Jackson Pollock (expected).  And its immense new building has the space to show the largest pieces I have ever seen within the walls of a museum (yeah, yeah, i've got to get my butt to Mass MoCA).  And the very hip dressed patrons just added to visual attraction of the place!
The best way to spend a rainy afternoon. I loved the Twombly paintings and the Lisa Yuskavage nude. Probably my favorites, but everything is good in here. The coat check line is long, but moves fast. The gift shop has a lot of cool knick-knacks and home furnishings. I wanted the cameras and the lucite heart rings. If i lived in New York I'd come here every week.
How have I not reviewed this from my last visit to NYC?  One word for art enthusiasts: heaven.  I spent an entire afternoon here and was slightly overwhelmed by how much is inside.  I much prefer the classics to modern but nevertheless, a great museum.  If you do come and it's your first time, I would definitely give yourself at least three hours to get through most of it.
I may not always understand or like what are showcased at this museum but some of the items do challenge my artistic point of view which in turn makes me a better artist.
Abstract art is not exactly my style, but it was a good experience none the less. If you get the CITY PASS you have admission to a lot of different museums. This was probably my 2nd or 3rd favorite.
The MOMA is definitely smaller than the MET, but just as enjoyable. If you don't have as much time, you'll definitely be able to finish the MOMA faster than the MET. If you are more into modern art, you'll enjoy the MOMA. There's so many amazing artists with beautiful pieces of artwork. AND this is near the famous halal cart! MMM!!! After the MOMA, you can take the bus to Grand Central Station and Rockefeller Center as well! Don't forget the famous LOVE sign around the corner too!
Wyeth, Picasso, Warhol, Van Gogh...what's not to love?
FYI: -Student admission is only $14 w/ ID -4 out of 6 floors are exhibits. The 1st floor is the entrance and the 6th floor is a gift shop -Do not get too close to some art pieces as you will get scolded at like I did :/ -Do not use flash as you will get scolded at like I did -Some areas aren't meant for camera use. You will see on your MoMA map guide, all the pink-colored areas are camera-forbidden -The surrounding area has great places for shopping! -This museum is great because it has a mix of everything! Classic art by van gogh, monet, picasso, etc., random street art, photography, and statues -The museum itself is very clean
Admittedly MoMA is not my favorite museum. Picasso? I don't get that dude. Thousands of candy wrappers on the floor? Well, that's called garbage, no? Yes yes I know, art, it's subjective, so one must approach this place with an open mind. Admission: $25 (includes: Audio guide and admission to MoMA PS1 in LIC. Valid within thirty days of date on ticket). What I loved: 5 stars for EVERYTHING Sanja Ivekovic. I get her. I get her work. It is raw, clever, irreverent and immensely profound.  Her Sweet Violence exhibit is some heavy shit. Jacob Lawrence's Migration Series also caught my attention, along with Ellen Gallagher's Print/Out, Printin'. What I'll always like: Warhol, Lichtenstein, Kahlo and Dali. Frida's boo, Diego Rivera is currently the main attraction, but unfortunately the room was packed and hot, so I merely scanned his work. What did nothing for me:  Everything else. It just seems so *dons flame retardant suit* vacuous. If I am to come here again -- and I will, to check out the garden -- it will be on a Friday, when admission is FREE between 4 and 8p.
My first trip to the MoMa was for Target Free Friday's from 4-8 during the summer.  What. A. Mistake. I've been to the Louvre and when people tell you that's crowded they have obviously never been anywhere FREE with A/C in New York on a Friday in the summer.  First, you have to line up on 54th street to get your free ticket.  The line moves quickly but we walked up on the 53rd st side so we wasted 10 minutes just finding the line.  Second, you can't have water in the museum (okay, that's not that big of a deal) so chug your water you bought from the street vendor while waiting and sweating in line.  THIRD, be ready to bump and grind with every single person in the museum.  It was so packed I had a hard time enjoying the art.   The audio guides were also free but we didn't pick one up since my friends and I were just doing a quick walk thru (only spent ~2 hours there, including waiting in line).   Moral of the story, you get what you pay for.
I must say, if you don't like, understand or want to try to understand the "what, where, why, or how" behind Modern Art you may not like this place.  I find it sad when people judge because it isn't the classic images of the past but a more edgy one.   The museum is chock full of great pieces, edgy pieces, weird pieces, breathtaking pieces and everything in between.  I do love coming with my two kids (one studied Contemporary Art Theory and Practice so she explains everything to me, I know NOTHING of modern or contemporary so I love learning from her.  The other goes to a Magnet High School for Designers and Artists so I get more learning from her) they have taught me to really appreciate what I used to like but didn't understand. On one floor I encountered a Seurat and happily kept on coming close to see the brushed on dots and walking back to get the image, gleefully hopping back and forth to really appreciate it, I do love his work - and then my younger daughter pulled me to the next room where there people around this one wall. And I saw it.  One of my top 5 favorite pieces on earth.  It was alone on this wall with a gaggle of tourists who just didn't seem to understand the impact of this piece, just the fame surrounding it. The Starry Night.  MY Starry Night, I have had a print hanging on my bedroom for 20 years, I enjoy it every day. I find the movement in the painting coupled with the serenity of the scene, painted by such an intense and troubled soul so wonderful, sad, inspiring, calming, so simply amazing.  To unexpectedly encounter this painting so beautifully displayed caused me to feel such a surge of emotion I was choked up.  To see up close the brush strokes - HIS actual strokes left me speechless.  I felt sadness for all of the individuals who just were standing there and just didn't GET it.  I returned to this spot when we were leaving to see it in person just one more time.   Today I learned that my young one was also fighting back emotion upon seeing this particular painting and she told me today how at that moment she understood my tears while standing under the Sistine Chapel all those years ago when we visited.   Moving on we saw amazing Malevich, Dali, Pollock, Newman, Rothko, Lichensteins and this one sculpture that had me completely enthralled, it was an old doll in a wood box behind some twigs.  So creepy, yet hypnotizing.  One of the best parts was that we were walking and smelled deeeelish food.  Thinking it was the cafeteria we started talking about how good it smelled.  One of the employees called to us to hurry that it was almost over and led us into an interactive installation.  Yes, part of the art installation was that they were serving Thai Vegetable Curry!!!  I almost died then and there.  Great art coupled with great curry?? Free food?? As art? Oh my!  Yes, please! We are most definitely returning soon, this is way too much fun.  I loved the bookstore too, I picked up a few things to bring home.
Go for Van Gogh. See it. Dive into it. Even if you're not a fan because I was not. Then I saw Starry Night here by accident. As one friend put it, he layers his oils so well that you just "want to drag your fingers through it." Oh my, did I want to touch it.  Reproductions are poor representations of his work. Come here if you like or at least open to the idea of modern art. Modern art has really grown on me in the past few years. I like how it always evokes feelings in me, negative or positive.  I came here around 4:10pm for the free Friday nights (4-8pm). Instant entry. I was pretty tired and just raced through. Certain exhibits made me wonder, "Is this really art or is it a psudeo-conspiracy joke by the art world so they can stop being starving artests?"
Excellent Cindy Sherman exhibit! The Diego Rivera exhibit was not as exciting as I would have like it to be, though. Great outside sitting area. Free admission Friday nights (thanks to Target!), but it does get b-u-s-y!
I love the Moma, and I love all museums. It really depends on the exhibit at the time. To be honest, I think MOMA caters much better to the local NYC crowd than tourists "happening on" during the day because there can be times you look at the collection and think, "Well, that's not worth it." However, MOMA is like a combination of the Met and Chelsea galleries - a little bit of old and a little bit of new. I would advise to come during the day. Late afternoon seems to be always packed - to a ridiculous extent where coat check is more of a bother than going into the museum itself. --  students are free ~ but get in line for those tickets! Also, quick disappointment-proof tip: Check online, a-head of time, whether or not you think you'll be interested in the exhibitions.
My biggest problem with Moma still till this day (which would be amazing if i could just tune it out and ignore) is that the security guards talk shit about the visitors. I understand that you're union workers and you get placed at moma cause you want any job, but at least realize that it's a museum and you're surrounded by artwork and people that have come to see it and have some sensitivity. If you listen (but you probably shouldnt cause once you realize this it's hard to ignore) you can sometimes catch a security guard muttering a snide comment as if it were a near silent street turf war. I used to go at least once every month until I noticed this was not an isolated incident. Over the years I've heard others voice the same complaint about how aggressive and nasty the security can be for no reason except for power tripping- and how none of this seems to be monitored.. where is quality control? Of course to be honest, Moma is where I had my most humiliating art institution experience. 2nd place goes to Naples capodimonte where the flamboyant kid working coat check took my professional DSLR camera and tossed it onto a metal storage cart, where it slammed and made a heartwrenching sound where you think OUCH bye bye $$. when confronted, he claimed he didnt do anything. yeah right. So Moma in 2008: I had just spent a few afternoon hours at the feature Dali exhibition and was rereading the exhibition description they paint large scale on the entrance wall. I was standing probably 15 feet back from it, when out of the blue a security guy inserts himself in front of me so my eye level is a foot from his chest, and says "you come back another time. We Closed." I asked "I just have one more line to read, can I finish reading quickly?" He says "No. I said you gotta leave. now." (note that other people are trickling out of the show from much deeper in and I'm at the entrance, and it's maybe 10 to closing but not closed) Before I am able to point out that I would've been done reading by now, he shouts to his buddy "Yo! this kid is startin trouble" and that guard (oblivious to what is going on) calls 3 other guards with him, and suddenly I'm surrounded full circle by 5 security guards who have no idea why they are surrounding me except that a 'kid is starting trouble'. I squeeze out and leave the museum disgusted. 4 years later I realize I shouldve complained to the front desk, though when i went down I didnt see anyone available to talk to and I just wanted to get OUT OF THERE. Kindness is underrated. Ego is overrated! To this day I've boycotted the main Moma museum, and I'll only go to the film theater because it's practically a different (security absent) and much more pleasant staff. Security at Moma PS1 in long island city is not as nasty as the Manhattan museum, so you'll probably have a fine time there.
The Dali exhibition is awesome, However: their room attendants/ security people are callous and… Read more »
I'm a cheapskate, so it pains me to pay $14 for a student ticket to a museum; That being said, MoMA is worth the price. Great selection, and I especially loved the furniture and architecture exhibits. Whether you are super artsy or not this place is great; everyone can enjoy the Van Gough, Dali, Picasso, Matisse pieces.  Plan to spend at least 3 hours there. Looking forward to using my ticket to get into PS1-- just across the river.
I have been fortunate to visit the Prado, the National Gallery, Uffizi, Acadamia, Tate Modern, Getty , Kunsthistorisches among others, but none have had the impact of MOMA, my favorite museum in the world.       I have been both educated and moved emotionally by Bonnard, Rodchenko and Picasso shows as well as any number of pieces in the permanent collection. The sculpture garden can inspire just because the sight of art students sketching beside excited families snapping photos next to legendary works feels so "New York".       Sharing this magical spot with my sweetheart while enjoying the fantastic Diego Rivera murals show made it all the more special.       The Metropolitan may be more vast, the Whitney more cutting edge, and the Guggenheim an architectural marvel, but if I could only have one, it would be MOMA.
There are likes and dislikes about MoMA. Likes: - special exhibitions, such as Abramovich retrospective last year, are more dynamic and eye-opening. - free Friday evening (4-8pm), so you save $25/person. - Cafe2: Located on the second floor, Cafe 2 offers an array of delicious and seasonal foods from Executive Chef Lynn Bound, including panini, handmade pastas, salumi, artisanal cheeses, salads, and soups, as well as sumptuous desserts. Orders are placed and paid for at the counter, and then plated and served to guests at communal tables. Italian wine selections are available by the glass or quartino. Dislikes: - permanent collections are kinda dull, from an artist point of view, a lot of stuffs carry nothing but big names. - overcrowded. At times the space is filled with too many people seemingly not sincere about art, but showing off their shiny new dresses, which catch more eyes than exhibits.
Some of the most classic and recognisable pieces of art here. Well worth your money if you're an art buff or even the casual person that appreciates art paintings and exhibits. There's a wide range of classic paintings along with many pieces of modern art/sculptures. Some of the modern items are very interesting ( as in normal everyday items portrayed in a different way, hence artwork) They also have Special exhibits which has new artwork every so often.
Best museum in Manhattan. It's my opinion, and I'm sticking to it. MoMA has given me a glimpse into a world I'd never otherwise see without them. I've met incredible movie directors through their films+ program, I've seen world-class exhibitions which rotate all the time, and I've re-visited the classics so many times I feel like they're almost hanging on my wall. Honestly, I think the films schedule at MoMA is their best-kept secret. Multiple movies shown every day in comfy theaters downstairs, sometimes with Q&A with cast or directors after the show. I've seen more movies at MoMA than regular theaters in the city. And the gift shop/design store is fantastic. Can't figure out what to buy for so-and-so's birthday? You'll find something awesome here. I guarantee it. Wish they were open later. That's my singular gripe. Otherwise, I love love love this place.
So much art, so little time, so many people. Very spacious, and a place to see huge pieces that you might not anywhere else.   Best to go when there is an exhibit you really want to see, when it is not raining (so you can go into the garden) and go early to avoid the crowds.  In this way, you can spend a leisurely time and the cost to get in won't annoy you.
There's enough worth seeing in this museum to highly recommend it, but if you're more of a casual art person who's mainly interested in the big names and more or less confused by a lot of modern/contemporary art, you probably won't be spending a lot of time here.  If you're really into that stuff though, this is the place for you. The painting and sculpture galleries are fantastic for their size.  Every work is by a "big name" artist and/or well-known in its own right.  The sculpture garden is a great area to relax enjoy art in a different setting.  The architecture gallery is fun to consider, even though all the designs would be impractical to build in a real-world setting.  Some of the contemporary art is interesting too if you leave behind your normal ideas about what art should be, although I don't think much of it is very memorable. I don't get too excited about the mediums of design or photography, though, and I do have reservations about a lot of contemporary art for a number of reasons.  The admission price is also on the high end, at $25 (of course, I judge the price against the impossible standard of the Met).  You do get a discount for buying a ticket online, though.  Also note that since this museum doesn't open until 10:30, there's not really an early time to go to beat the crowds.
Cindy Sherman exhibit was top notch! And the Andy Warhol stuff. too. Recommend the Library Restaurant, for excellent wine selection and great food! Look forward to going back when next in the Big Apple.
Thank you, Target Free Fridays! TIP: to avoid walking more than necessary, make sure to enter through 54th instead of 53rd because the ticket line for Target Free Fridays forms from the entrance on 54th. I entered through 53rd and had to walk across the museum to the other side, then walk all the way down to the end of the line only to come back & obtain a ticket to get into the exhibit. Don't waste your time; just enter the line through 54th (you'll see a long line of people already formed). ANOTHER TIP: listening devices are free (valid with a photo ID), so make sure to grab one. It's also offered in many different languages, fyi. It was my first time at MoMA, and thanks to Target Free Fridays, I was able to enjoy almost three hours of modern (old & new) art. Only at MoMA will you be able to see the iconic pieces of Claude Monet, Pablo Picasso, Vincent Van Gogh, Gustav Klimpt, Andy Warhol, Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera (and so many more) up close & in person. My least favorite exhibit was Cindy Sherman. I have absolutely no idea why her exhibit should be considered art, but that's just my personal take on her 'form of art'. Her exhibit was just twisted, crazy, nutso. The museum store is also great, and I appreciated a pretty large section exclusive for books. It was like browsing through Barnes & Noble, only it's a museum store. Sure, MoMA was really crowded thanks to Target Free Fridays, but I didn't mind. I was able to appreciate modern art for free, so why complain?
Most of my friends, including the man I love, are artists.  Beautiful, talented, crazy, passionate and potentially dangerous, artists.  Me?  Not so much... I consider myself an enthusiast.  A kid that wants to absorb all that is beautiful. The last leg of our worldwind trip to NYC.  William de Kooning.  To be honest, I was not familiar with his work.  I've never studied art.  So, the way I discover art is thru the eyes of my friends that are much more knowledgable in it or by my own sheer will.  I'll walk into a gallery, a museum, an exhibit.  I get captured, then... all I want to do is learn everything about the art and the artist. The de Kooning exhibit was perfectly curated.  It took you step by step thru the years of Kooning's career.  It's as if you had a professor holding your hand, walking you thru each painting, explaining his techniques and style without making you feel like you just got out of a finger painting class. This is a stunning museum.  Whichever exhibit you happen to catch,  MOMA alone, is worth the visit.  It's beautiful..
Figure in the Garden Just Gough!
Amazing! Life changing! Must see! But I urge art lovers NOT to go on friday free nights! There are so many tourists who are just looking for something free to do and take pictures of themselves next to a Picasso and upload it to their facebook pages. There are a LOT of rude, disrespectful comments being made rather loudly about the art that I cannot even bring myself to repeat ever again. And just a thought too... maybe this isn't exactly the place that is fun for the whole family? Modern art isn't exactly "kid friendly" and perhaps there isn't much for kids to do at any art museum. The real reason for one less star than this collection of art deserves is that there isn't much being done about the flash photography here. It shows very, very much in some of the paintings which are in need of restoration. The main attraction was Van Gogh's "Starry Night" which is really breath taking in person as opposed to the prints that most of us have seen of it. Not enough was done about the multiple flashes that went off every few seconds & I found myself saying out loud "no flash photography" But, in the age of social networking if they don't post a photo it is like they were never even there. And what else would they have to brag about to their friends about their big visit to an NYC art museum? There is a LOT to be cherished here and one deserves all the time in the world to take it all in. Go on a weekday. Spend the $. It will be needed for restorations one day.
Um hello!  Free Fridays!  Even if you don't totally dig the art... you can dig free. I've taken advantage of this deal twice now.   Recently I stood in a room with a couple dozen people staring up at balloons floating along the ceiling.  Every so often a balloon would fall.  And if you were lucky enough to catch the balloon* you could take it home.   What, you don't get it?  This is art, people.  And thats the kind of stuff you see at MoMa.  Stuff that makes you look up and wonder. * I caught a balloon... and actually left the museum with it.  After 2 blocks I got sick of its super shiny silver material and tossed it.  But the looks I got from people on the street made it totally fun while it lasted.
What can I say that hasn't already been said? A legendary art museum with a mix of the old and the new. They have everything from architecture and design to film screenings to classic paintings by the likes of Picasso and Pollock. And they always have fantastic exhibitions, like "Cindy Sherman" (through June 11) and "Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence" (through March 26). Admission is free on Fridays from 4 to 8 PM. If you really love the museum, you should become a member - you get tons of perks and it's cheaper in the long run (one adult ticket is $25!). Be sure to check out the museum store. If I had more disposable income, I would buy a ridiculous amount of art books.
I am not an art guy.  I don't go to art museums regularly.  I have worked across the street from an art museum for seven years and I've entered it twice.  So, take this for what it is worth: I thoroughly enjoyed the three hours I spent at MoMA recently.  Literally, I turned a corner and saw Starry Night - what a pleasure and by itself worth the price of admission. Here are a couple of tips: 1.  They sell tickets at the information booth as well as the ticket booth.   2.  Get the audio guide on the first floor, then take the elevator to the sixth floor and work yor way down. 3.  Don't forget to visit the Diego Rivera exhibit - it is on the second floor. Enjoy!
Love love this place! If you're visiting NYC on a budget, go to MOMA on a Friday afternoon.  Admission is free from 4-8 pm, thanks to Target.  Get in line around 3:30 pm so you can take your time to explore the museum. Highlights of my visit include: *The outdoor sculpture park *Seeing works from two of my loves, Van Gogh & Monet *Becoming a new fan of Fernand Léger's work *Receiving funny/lame pick up lines...example: While taking a picture of a painting, some guy next to me says, "Why take a pic of that when you can take a pic of me?"
Went free Friday night (after 4 pm). Make sure you don't have to check anything in the bag check, though, because that line is craaaaaazy. Otherwise, you get your ticket outside in a VERY swiftly moving line. (Can't say that for the New Museum.) Particularly fell in love with the "Sweet Violence" exhibit. See it if you have time. Also LOVED the back gardens. Gorgeous.
Iconic collection, beautiful building, well-curated special exhibits. Yes, admission is expensive. Yes, weekends (and free Friday nights) are crowded. Yes, you might loathe half of what you see. But (and I say this as someone whose head is stuck in the Renaissance) everything is eye-opening and potentially mind-expanding. Time spent here is never wasted. If you have a chance to check out the Cindy Sherman exhibit before it closes, go. And if the garden is open, sit.
I was at the MoMA for a "special" event, An Evening with the Blondes(who are actually brunettes). My evening at the MoMA began with a 1/2 block long line on 53st, in the cold, but the weather is not MoMA's fault. We waited outside for at least 15 minutes then went inside to wait in another line for tickets. Then another line for coat check. Then another line for drinks. After all the lines, we walked around the museum. It was pretty cool to be there with all the hipsters from Williamsburg. They were all there, greasy hair, flannel and all, bobbing their heads in a marijuana induced stupor(no judgement here).  The music was good, loud, electronica. The exhibits upstairs were open for viewing.  They were interesting/weird, as expected. From the second floor we were able to scope out the bar and decided the best angle to get another drink. By the time we got down there, the booze were gone. Gone! Poof! Like a fart in the wind. I thought the hipsters were gonna riot, but we just looked at each other, shrugged, and headed to the coat check. There are a few exhibits that I will be back to see, Sweet Violence being one of them. Sounds interesting, right?
We are definitely spoiled in DC with all of our magnificent and free museums - but the MOMA is magnificent and special and well worth the $25 admission. Caught the DeKooning retrospective here this week. Saw Les Demoiselles D'Avignon, Starry Night, Monet's Lliy ponds - a whole room full of them. The line to get in was massive and long - but it moves pretty quickly - and once you're in you do not notice all the throngs. Just you and the art.
Line up for this place on Friday at 3:30pm.  Yes, the line is whatever number of blocks long, but it goes by quickly...because that's how NYers do it!  That way, it'll be free.  If you can't go then, go online to buy tickets (it's a bit cheaper) and dig up that old student ID of yours like I do.  Then the total will be $12. Huuuge museum with lots to do!  I've been here twice, with both visits being a year apart.  I was glad to see that most of the galleries were new-there's the architecture floor (which I think is the most fun!), right now they're doing a whole series on domestic violence, there's 3D art and of course, paintings of squares and lines.  Sigh. I liked the cafe too, actually!  Cute cups for tea and latte art.  Great service as well.   Oh, and the sculpture garden is always a fun spot to picnic at!  The store also has creative gadgets to buy as gifts.
When you're in new york, there is just so many things to do, and unless you're incredibly lucky, only a short time to do it all.  No matter how rushed you are take a few hours out of your trip to visit this museum.  It is a must do in my opinion.  There are my favorites such as starry night by van gogh or salvador dalí's the persistence of memory.
I have the luxury of not paying to get in with their recent price increases. MOMA's collection is historic and it would be unfair to devalue even the more beautiful canonical art. It's pretty crowded and is frustrating that people navigate the museum with their cameras-- I guess it creates more intimacy than grabbing a good quality photo from their website? Regardless, MOMA also has some of the best gallery security since I rarely notice they're around. Good stuff. Also? The Elizabeth Catlett image next to her sculpture (vague, I know) should be moved in a more noticable stop given her recent death and the fact that it is -amazing-. It shouldn't be adjacent to the entrance, but hey, rotation is key anyway.
I visited on 8/22/12 and it was pretty packed with visitors from all around the world. The location is easily accessible by subway at the Rockerfeller station off of route 6. Since I had only a short amount of time before getting on my flight, I did a short quick tour of the galleries on 4th, 5th, and 6th floor. I highly recommend these floors if you're short on time like me. The famed paintings of Monet, Picasso, and Van Gogh were on 5th floor. The century of the child exhibit was on today, and I really enjoyed it...too bad there was no photography allowed on the special exhibit sections. I'm not a big fan of modern art, but I enjoyed my experience today. I lost my phone when I left the museum and I called lost & found there. They don't have the budget to ship it to me, but the man on the phone talked to his manager and asked for an exception. I am planning to donate money to this establishment for their excellent customer service.
I'm a so-so fan of contemporary and modern art especially if I "get the art" but if I don't "get the art" I start to space out and forget why I am here. That's why I went to every other museum before this one because I wanted to make sure I got to see the good stuff first. But this place has an even mix of useful modern art and "other modern art." And I'm glad I came because even with their other modern art out there, there is other stuff that I was inspired to want to see more. They have six floors of art ranging from the contemporary to architecture and design, to painting and sculptures from the 19th century. My favorites were the 4th and 5th floors with "Paintings and Sculptures I and II." Many of my favorite artists including Paul Cezanne, Claude Monet, Salvador Dali, Andy Warhol, Henri Matisse and much much more. And yes dozens of Picasso's are here as well. The architecture and design on the 3rd floor has a lot of 1950s tables, chairs, sofas etc that were pretty innovative back then. Overall, this place is awesome. It's part of the NY City Pass so you should do this towards the beginning of your trip and not like me and put it off to the very end. Wish I could have stayed here a bit longer.
I love MoMA! I come here every time I come to New York City, which is annually. The collection is unparalleled, and the new building showcases the art so elegantly. I can't imagine I can add to what the other Yelpers have already mentioned, but I wanted to make a point or two of note: 1. Take advantage of the free scheduled gallery tours. Although I had been here countless times before, I had never taken advantage of this lovely feature, but my husband noticed the time and said we could make the highlights of the collection tour last time we were there. I loved it! it was only an hour, and the guide chose pieces he was excited to discuss. It was a lot of fun, and really helped me get so much more out of pieces I had seen repeatedly before. 2. Check out whatever the special exhibition is. MoMA will not let you down, whether it's a "name brand" show such as de Kooning or an interpretive show that features themes or eras, you know that MoMA's access to the premier pieces of art worldwide will give you a special glimpse. 3. The audio guides are free! FREE! 4. Do not miss the sculpture garden. If you are on your last legs traipsing through this ginormous collection, save some muscle to propel you and keep you erect in the beautiful sculpture garden. In the middle of the mad bustle of the city, this refined square of Gotham will make you glad you did. Moonbird and the Giacometti are particularly satisfying. Don't miss them! Whatever you do, save time and money for MoMA. There is no other modern art museum anywhere in the world (even the Tate Modern) that rivals this collection and its accessibility.
The building in itself is a work of art, with its minimalistic and modern glass exterior. Right from the get-go the Museum of Modern Art (aka MoMA), greets you with hints of its treasures inside. While it's not the treasure trove of historical and trans-generational art that the Met is (see: http://www.yelp.com/biz/…), MoMA is in its own right an artistic and iconic hub. It also has more informational and institutional resources than the Met IMO. For example, I'm a huge, huge fan of architecture and MoMa is great resource for this. From the moment you enter the exhibitions you're greeted with massiveness. Space that is in some occasions either immensely tall, wide, or both. You feel a little less crammed or cluttered here than you do at the Met (but in all fairness, the Met has a HUGE number of worldwide historical exhibits). To this day, I still remember the 1st time I viewed Monet's "Reflections of Clouds Water Lilies" in all it's tri-part glory (and the moment my breath was taken away by the sheer size of it). Or, the work's of Matisse and van Gogh (all of which I had to either redraw or painstakingly document the history and info on for Art History classes, lol). All-in-all, while I love the Met more than MoMA...I tend to find MoMA a better source of inspiration (especially for Typefaces/Design, Layouts, and Architecture).
I love museums and have an above average affinity for nerdy things like tech, social media etc. Special exhibit Talk to Me was a combination of interactive media QR codes, displays of old Apple computers (circa logo rainbow apple) as well as many innovative items that you might see in Fast Co Design. I was pretty amused by the braille rub-ix cube and New York city sound map of public service calls.  A trough of pill capsules filled with written words, a literal interpretation of a passage in Ezekiel from the Old Testament and much much more. I definitely would love to come back keeping in mind: *go on non weekend day *not during a snow storm...if this is happening and you are willing to pay $22.50 to get out of the storm, PURCHASE ON IPHONE or other smart device so you can skip the line. We didn't know to buy tickets in advance and were waiting in line until I made my friend buy them on iphone, go inside and give the information desk your confirmation number and they will print out your tickets *not via car...parking across the street for 3 hours $52.00 plus toll charge coming in from Jersey....$12 take the Path and the metro much cheaper 4/5 as I didn't get through everything and can't wait to come back to do so. but they have some great art pieces too-  Marilyn Monroe by Andy Warhol and an amazing Jackson Pollock. Also great architecture exhibit showcasing WTC building submissions
Be sure to eat at the connecting restaurant The Modern or the bar there! 1 Michelin star for their restaurant, which I wasn't expecting. As for the museum, I just don't really get modern art. It was really crowded on the weekend and there were so many different floors to explore! Just A-OK in my book.
MOMA always has some pretty chill exhibits...but unlike the Met, admission isn't based on donations so you really can't get away with "oops, I seem to have misplaced my wallet...oh but hey, wow, there's a quarter in my pocket."
I was SO impressed by this museum. I kept reading reviews and had heard from people how wonderful it was and I finally am able to say that I agree whole heartedly. The incredible artists that are housed in this museum are numerous...from Picasso to Monet to Van Gogh to Rothko to Pollack to Lichtenstein. The media art is also of top notch quality. My advice- go when the weather is nice out, start at the 6th floor and work your way downstairs to end your day with a relaxing sit in the sculpture garden.  The crowds will always be insane, but make sure you fight through them to see "Starry Night" - it truly is magical.
I spent 3 hours here, and only left because it was closing.  Although not a huge modern art fan, I found this museum very interesting, with enough diversity in art to satisfy many aesthetic genres.  There was an exhibit on Mount St. Helens, which I have climbed to the top of before, so that was I special experience for me.  They also had a whole floor with paintings from Picasso, Klimpt, amongst other favorites.  The product design display was neat because I was accompanied by a product designer who brought his own perspectives to the 'table.'  No pun on words.
The best modern art museum I've ever been to. The architecture doesn't compare with the Pompidou Center though.
Why is NY Moma 3493849384x  cooler than the SF Moma??  The art here is amazing and incredibly modern.  The light installations and the one where you can jump in and make a shadow art is super cool.  The best paintings and sculptures are here and you can stay in here all day analyzing them. There are also great photography exhibits including pictures of what would happen if our genetics made our eyebrows have growth spurts or if our eyelashes grew continuously.   We got in for free with the NY Pass.
4 stars because they let me in for free. If I had to pay $20 or whatever the price was, it'd be 3. LOVE THE CUBIST paintings. The Soviet art.  loved the Dali exhibit. These were worth it. Also, that Chagall made me cry. Also, discovered Jean Arp here. Otherwise, lots of big rooms with lots of photos and architecture of lots of nothing.  Is Monet's wall-length water liles here? I forget. Well if it is that's nice. Met is better any day of the week.
So maybe it is just me but I feel that MoMA is totally overrated.  The architecture of the building is absolutely stunning and it contributes to the overall enjoyment of the pieces contained therein, but I feel that it lacks in support staff.  In my experience most of the staff at MoMA have limited knowledge.  I think this contributes to the fact that often a lot of what they choose to display is more about what some connected person wants them to show rather than what is actually good.  But hey .... that is just my opinion.
Along with the Musee d'Orsay in Paris, the MoMA has got to be the best modern art museum in the world. While I won't pretend to understand the performance piece that was going on while I was here I must admit that I left this building feeling amazed, inspired, and full of wonder. It made me feel like a kid again.
Went to the Tim Burton exhibit and it was great. There was a wall at the beginning that listed all of his work (famous or unfamous) and I forgot how many great films he has been associated with. The exhibit itself consisted of video, sketches and some sculpture that covered most of his major work. Judging by the work he is either a very normal guy with an extremely dark side or someone who you should not leave small children in the presence of. This exhibition is worth seeing whether you are a fan of Tim Burton or just an art lover. 4 1/2 stars is right for this
This place has excellent art exhibits but it closes way too early. 5:30PM? Are you serious? They need to do a better job at handling people turning in the audio tours... more than one person cut the line and they still gave them their IDs back. Hell, if I knew the workers were such spineless idiots I wouldn't have bothered dropping off my ID in the first place.
I don't recommend the Burton exhibit for those who suffer from claustrophobica.  I went on a Monday afternoon and it was packed with Burton fanatics. Overall, I enjoyed the museum's outdoor garden, design exhibit and early modern works. The Monet gallery is really quite spectacular. As a self proclaimed art snob (it is NOT art if I can do it), I dismissed Monet's water lilies as pastel smudges. After seeing the enormity of the canvases, I can see that man had talent.
MoMA has some of the most incredible art there is to offer! It is huge and honestly by the fourth or fifth floor even I was slightly tired. Each floor offers piece after amazing piece of shire beauty. The second floor featured Days, a room of at least 8 hanging speakers repeating the days of the week in various orders. It was strange but put an instant smile on my face for some reason. The children's art was really good and a few times even I had to wonder if some of these kids had some over-helpful parents. Everything was just so beautiful and a number of times I was captivated to stop and stare at more than several paintings and sculptures. Another great thing about the MoMA is you are allowed to take pictures, which is something utterly forbidden at the Guggenheim. Must visit!!! :)
Just saw the Matisse exhibit and it was good.  I have also seen the Van Goghs and the Monets and really enjoyed them.  The worst part about MoMA is that it's always crowded.  That's good for them, but most of these people are inconsiderate and take the fun out of what should be an enjoyable experience.
I liked Cafe 2 and the Muji across the street.  I loved how I was able to photograph work I had studied in figure sculpture like the plaster portrait heads covered with wax.  When I was here, the Martin Puryear show was only open to members, but the floors have window cutouts that look into that exhibition.  It was a helpful way to appreciate the scale of the sculptures.  The hanging helicopter was also cool.
I was kind of surprised to see a Dyson Vacuum on display here? This place houses a lot of very eclectic pieces. Even if you are not an artsy person by nature, I guarantee you will find something interesting.
Let me preface by saying that I am not a big art museum fan.  Especially if it's modern art.  I don't think modern art holds the same or similar weight that classic art has/does.   The Modern Museum of Art (MoMA) is considered one of the main tourist attractions of NYC.  It's a $20 admission, but we got in for free due to company perks.. yay! ;-)   I was a bit confused by some of the "art", and not confused in a "hmm.. how did they think of that?".. or "hmmm, I wonder how long it took to complete this."  Confused as in WHAT?!  It's considered art to take black tape, paste it all around the walls in zig zags and crazy line patterns, and then cut out pictures of eyes from magazines and paste them in between these lines?  Strategically, of course.  C'mon.  Yes, it's fun..  yes, it's cool..  yes, it's slightly creative but not really..  but NO.. this is not my idea of art.  It's as if these modern artists are trying way too hard to be unique in a sea of so many artists from centuries past and of the present, that they have to think of the most random idea in order to know that they can be dubbed as an arteeeeest.  I frankly feel as if a Kindergarten student could seamlessly be considered an artist in this type of designation we hold today.  I watched a video in one of the exhibits, and the "artists" were talking about how we, humans are such a small element in a larger picture, blah blah blah.  Um, yes.. I think most of us are consciously aware of that already, and it isn't innovative to think like that, or to use that as a vehicle to drive one as a successful artist, which is what they were trying to explain.  And I was also a bit surprised at how MUCH thought is put into a piece of modern art.  It's like they are trying, rather than *being*.  When I look at classic art, I see creativity that must have been fluid..  easy to the artist..  but so intriguing to the audience.  Now, it's not fluid.. and then it is not intriguing to the audience because I've seen my mom's Kinder students make similar creations.. while their parents try to act like their child was not a part of that. Anyway, the black tape and cut-out eyes thing was actually decent in comparison to a copy of the front page of a newspaper being splattered in red paint and being framed at the MoMA.   The Tim Burton exhibit was the only interesting sight to see.  I am neutral to Tim Burton, but if you are a fan, you will most certainly enjoy the displays. The photography was a highlight for me, but there were only a few that caught my attention in a "wow!" way.  I'm not even difficult to please...   but I think the Metropolitan Museum of Art (MET) would strike my fancy, as it contains ancient/historical art - alas, it was closed on Monday (and every Monday, except for "holiday Mondays).  If you are one to enjoy quirky art over a fluid substance.. then you'll have more fun at the MoMA than I did. :-b
MOMA gets a big thumbs up from me even though I'm not a huge modern art fan.  It has a large impressionist collection, organized and logical layout and the bathrooms are in the same place on every floor.  Plus, it's included in the NY City Pass.
Cool, interesting, different. I came here on Friday where admission is free which is even better. Layout was good so it didn't feel like I was swamped in crowds and the restaurant menu looks bomb (too bad we didn't have time to try out) but I would def. come here again.
I love coming here!!  I make it a point to check this place out each time I come out to NYC.  I know that lots of people review this place but I just thought that I would like to mention that they have a cool design exhibit.  I appreciate it that the peeps that work there don't hassle you not to take pictures.  So please check out my pictures I uploaded.
Totally worth getting membership at MOMA.  Just went to Members preview of German Expressionism.  Wow.  Not to be missed!
The new MoMA is amazing. The lofty architecture and stark decor perfectly present the astounding modern collection--even the lobby is gorgeous and adorned with a Warhol. The lines to get in are always, always outrageous--there is never a non-tourist time of year-- so forking up the $75 a year for a membership card (which allows you to skip the lines and gets you a 10% discount at the Museum store) is well worth it, especially because several trips are required to really take it all in. During the summer the sculpture garden is open to the public, which is a bonus because it's not only accessible on the ground level but visible through the glassed walls along the stairwells to the upper floors.
Pollock. Picasso. Pixar. All the greats are stored all in one place. A must see for any modern art lover. You have to see the Pixar exhibit. It's the coolest. The 6th floor has the weirdest exhibits and the $20 is pricey but the art is great, the gift shop has the neatest stuff and the museum is free on Fridays after 4pm.
My favorite floor is the one with Picasso, Seurat, Monet and all those other awesome artists.  That floor alone is worth a quick stop to MOMA.
One of my favorite stops. The MOMA includes all the greats; Van Gogh, Picasso, and some of the greatest photographers of our time. I won't write a lot because tons has already been written, I will say if in New York, add it to your itinerary.
A must every single time I'm in NYC. It is the epicenter of my artistic taste. If you like to hang reproductions of the Mona Lisa in your living room, you may not like it that much.
Went to see The Aritist Is Present by Marina Abramovic.  Can't stop staring at the staring.  WIll be depressed when this is over.  Loved her exhibit...so much to see...pictures, films...models doing reenactments of her old performances. Very interesting !   I hope she comes back again to do something else !
If you've never been to the MoMA, you should make a trip out there. It's a trippy place that never fails to amaze. Even if you're not into art, you'll get something out of it.
so okay.  i will admit.  im not the most artistically sound person.  there are a lot of things that i dont get.  i will admit it.  but this place is pretty darn cool.  not much else to say.  now, there are (in my opinion) some pretty stupid things in here too.  you know, like them blank canvas' with a dot on it?  what the fox?  i was told that whatever your interpretation may be, it can make it art.  but c'mon!  are you kidding me?   all in all, this place is real cool.  they have a lot of classic paintings and some cool modern ish, and depending on when you go, they might have a real cool exhibit out.  so the good definitely out weighs the bad, but be prepared to see some stupid stuff too.  maybe its my ignorance, but man, that stuff just wasnt cool.  haha. but most definitely, go check this place out.  you'll enjoy it.  well...most of it.
honestly, there is only so much modern weirdo art i can take...but it is so nice to see some of the classics as well. after being at the MET for five hours, it is quite refreshing! check the website, i think it is free after a certain time on fridays?! you can't beat freakin' free!!!
Went to MoMa yesterday already knowing what exhibition my friend and I wanted to see. Salvador Dali's exhibition was taking place. One word: Amazing!! Paintings, sculptures and vintage films were part of this Amazing exhibit! Also personal letters to friends such as fellow film producer Buñuel were also displayed and translated into english. Also many quick sketch ideas for films were also displayed!  I had never been to MoMa and I have to say it was a great experience!! Will def. go again!!
I really enjoyed this museum and I'm not even the hugest of fans. We snagged an AWESOME college student discount because we happened to have our old college ID's with us at check-in. (We only graduated a year ago!!! :-) The place itself is gorgeous and just huge and packed with people. Fortunately I never found it overbearingly crowded and I was able to pick my brain over the pieces of art they had in there in relative comfort. I found the exhibit of the guy who was isolate himself for extended periods of time to be especially striking. Would def. recommend MOMA to anyone visiting NYC!
I like the MOMA -- the only problem is it can get a bit crowded - but that's not its fault -- its just that fun!! Its got a really interesting collection of pieces -- a great building -- and a fantastic laid back attitude -- there are so many interesting and exciting events going on -- the only comparable thing that might beat it - would probably be the pompidou in paris - but the moma is more laid back - so it gets extra awesome points!
A cool place to hang out and take pictures. I especially love taking pictures of people who are looking at the Jackson Pollock paintings as if they are looking to interpret them. So how do you review a museum? Are museums immune from reviews? If the human experience is art then is every place/space is a museum.
Great way to spend a Saturday afternoon :)
My favorite museum. I always try to go everytime I'm in NY. It's just a different experience when you see art in real life versus in books or online. Definitely worth the admission price.
Would love to go again! Best part, I got in for free because I'm a state student! :) def. enjoyed my time and had fun. Very interesting. Can't wait to go again!
I love visiting this museum, especially on Free Friday Target Nights when admission is free! The line looks long initially but it tends to move fairly quickly. I admit that there is still some "abstract art" I don't always get, but I am gradually developing a broader appreciation. The MOMA store is always great to visit too if you looking for gifts because they do have unique items, although you are definitely paying for the idea behind the item after you see the price tags. Their Christmas cards are always creative; I would recommend going the day after Christmas to stock up for next season's cards at a discount.
They need to work on their registration, but great museum.
Be sure to visit the wishing tree in tHe courtyard. Thenwishing tree is an interactive exhibit created by Yoko Ono. Take a slipmof paper and a pencil, write you wish, then tie it all the others onto the limbs of the wishing tree. Thoughtful group experience.
The permanent impressionist art section is one of my favorite galleries, and the special exhibits, while sometimes obscure or a little bit niche (like the current collection of Picasso's guitars), are always amazing food for thought. It's a lovely place to wander - especially as a member (only $75 for the yr, 50 for students.) And the cafe is definitely worth hitting up for a quality lunch or a glass of wine. Also the sculpture garden is guaranteed to provide some R&R time in good weather, and at off-peak times.
My favorite museum in the city. why? Starry Night, enough said.
Been to a lot of modern art museums, and despite the fact that this is in New York, I think the remodeling is disappointing. I don't really remember the collection that well. It's stoic.
Great place.  If you go late, you can get in for free.  I used to do this all the time.  It is really a worth-while stop.
There is something wildly enchanting about dancing in a museum.   A complete and expansive array of modern art in the most beautiful modern building.  This place reeks of NYC and all its cultural glory. I used to go with my family- one of the most memorable exhibits was a futuristic car expo outside in the gardens.   Open bar and Hercules and Love affair spinning recently really put me over the edge. I can't help myself... It was sensory overload.  Art/fashion/music/dancing/heaven.   Plan for lots of time walking around, you will want to be here for hours.  Don't forget to stop at the gift store silly!
It was very busy but it was summer vacation for us so it was to be expected. We ate at the cafe, it is very expensive for what you get... but not judging that and only judging the museum itself, it has a beautiful layout and a great variety of some amazing art. The only real hassle was having to deal with the coat check and leaving your bag with them.
Go to pay as you wish night!
Love this place. My first time here and I was v impressed with the collection. Van Gogh, Frida were my favorites and there is so much more to see! Will be back again!
Absolutely love it. Great exhibitions, as well as an amazing permanent collection. The garden is great in summer. Become a member! They also show great movies, which are free when you're a member.
I tentatively give the 3 stars to MoMA. It's a money hungry behemoth filled with both the most pretentious artist wannabes and the worst tourists. If not for some their great paintings/sculptures, and those amazing special exhibitions I would give it 1 star. Just to qualify things, I am a working artist not to mention a Professor of Art as well, and I won't even bring my students here! Most of the time it's simply too packed to move in, let alone get a good look at the works. The $25 ticket price is absurd, I mean come on your a depository for great modern culture and your going to charge that much for people to visit? Shame on this museum. I know someone will argue the free Thursday nights, come on have you ever seen the line that snakes around the building during those evenings?  Finally, the staff are the rudest museum workers I have ever experienced and I've been to Museums all over this country as well as Europe and South America.  If you want to go to a place that cares head to The Met, or The Brooklyn. Unless there is something really amazing up, stay out of the MoMA.
Incredible!
Almost forget why I love NYC until I came back to MoMA many years after. You feel like modern history is playing just right in front of your eyes. You feel the creativity, you feel the sense of timelessness, you feel the art. It is not the classic history, it is now, what is happening now? Many years ago, it was MoMA that make me fall deeply in love with water lily. I hope I can express this kind of human passion to my kids as well..
I love the Moma . . . but you should be warned that Free Friday is a MADHOUSE! We practically planned our whole vacation around free friday at the moma. . . and then saw a line that went around the avenue in the freezing cold. And it was windy. And it looked like the line could take HOURS.
How could you not love the MOMA? Wish there was one in LA.
LOVE LOVE MoMA. I'm a huge fan of Modigliani, Rousseau, Kandinsky, Matisse, Chagall, Munch, Gogh etc... They have  one of the best audio tour for kids!! and It's free. My son (7 yrs) enjoyed the patings with interesting stories w/ audio tour. Great place!!
Walked around this place for over two hours and could have spent that much time just walking around the architecture exhibit on the third floor.  The Mies Van Der Rohe exhibit is absolutely great and wish some of the stuff could have come back to Chicago with me. Only wish I could have walked through the place on a quieter day as the place was pretty noisy at 3:00 p.m. on a Saturday.
This is a great museum with lots of cool paintings, including Van Gogh's "Starry Night". Great place to go with kids and there is tons of really random art, which is very cool. The museum also includes some of Jackson Pollock, which are also very cool.
I think the other reviewers covered the details. It's like if you combined a cathedral and a modern art textbook and then walked through it.
It's the MoMA. It's exceptional. I'm glad I can get in for free with my ID, and feel bad for all the suckers who have to pay $20+ for a ticket.
You have to go at least once, if only for their permanent collection on the 4th floor. So crowded all the time, its awful. But everyone on the planet wants to go here, so there is nothing you can do. I had to be stuffed like a sardine can for the Van Gogh exhibit last year, but it was worth it.
went here with mom and dad on christmas eve for fun since i get corporate discount and can bring 2 guests for free.  i used to like MoMA, but i wasn't very impressed by the exhibits this time.  sort of depressing with all the violence section in the gallery of photography.  a little bit gray for the holiday season.  anywho, at least we got to see the starry night again.  that's always exciting.  i recommend if you have to pay to go here, check the exhibit schedule first... otherwise, it may get a bit depressing if they're displaying the wrong line =/
They work really hard at this place.  I go about once a week and I am in awe that I see some new stuff all the time.  They dont just rotate the temporary exhibits but the older classic works, too.  You gotta rehit floors 4 and 5 once in a while.  Moma is the Ferrari of the museum world.
I always feel I get my money's worth each time I visit.
Okay, I'm just gonna come out and say it.  I don't really "get" most modern art.  There.  It's out.  Now, with that said, I really enjoyed most of the art I saw at the MoMA!  Sure there were some exhibits that left me confused and wondering if the art was created by children, but once I got to some of the upper floors that confusion melted away.  I was in awe seeing the Starry Night with my very own eyes, Dali's famous the Persistence of Memory, all the amazing Picassos (my personal favorite was a ballet costume he designed), Warhols, Jackson Pollacks, it's really quite amazing.  They also have sections on furniture and architecture, pretty neat stuff!  In addition to all the art, they have film screenings!  I checked out One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest during my visit.  It's free the day you attend the museum, but you can purchase movie tickets separately if you'd like as well.  I'm officially a fan :)
this is a place which merits an complete day all for itself!! you can easily be ere hours and hours... the exhibits they have are amazing.. we were lucky to have been informed of the exhibition of Picasso this weekend... it was breathe taking... it is a must see place when visiting NEW YORK!!
as a new yorker, I think we take our museums for granted... there really aren't that many (if any) museums in the world that do things as well as the MoMA.  there's always an exhibition that's going to catch your eye...  and if the art doesn't get you.. there's always great food (cafe 2, terrace 5, the modern) and great shopping (2 design stores and a book store!).  trifecta.
The MOMA is a very interesting museum. My husband and I spent about 4 hours at the museum and we covered the entire museum. Your ticket is good all day so you can leave the museum, grab some lunch, and come back, which is what we did. Some of the exhibits were really interesting and intriguing. Other exhibits were not as intriguing and it did not seem like art to me. I really like photographs and paintings so those exhibits were nice. I am not into architecture so those exhibits were a bit confusing. There is definitely a variety of exhibits that cover most aspects of art. We would definitely come back if we returned to New York
had a great experience here seeing Picasso, my favorite!! went on friday and it was free to get in, can't beat that!! very memorable.
any place where so much art, well known and obscure can make its home is a good one to me. i really only had time for the contemporary gallery and a little bit of the design and architecture, but it  was quite enjoyable. one of my favorite things however, was seeing a  mother explain a piece to her two young sons (in french). tres bien! the flow of this museum was also quite nice, and felt fairly natural. i enjoyed the kirshner exhibit, and the rain falling in the sculpture garden. ( i enjoyed this rain less when i was walking home in it without an umbrella)
the Sherman show is a must see for everyone in our present image-centered anti-aging obsessed culture. haunting & amusing at the same time. great show!
This was the only museum we went to while in NY and it was pretty cool. There's one in SF near where we live, but I haven't been. It was cool bc as soon as we got in line to buy tickets, a couple who already went on a tour there gave us two free admissions for that day and my friend in the army got free admission, so we all got to go the moma for free!They had a lot of andy warhol, frida khalo, jackson pollack, van gogh, monet and other famous names. It was like five floors of exhibits and each floor was different which was cool. There were exhibits with sculptures and stuff too so it was cool to see. One of the things we saw that mesmerized my boyfriend's attn for about 15 minutes was this robot piano thing with about 10 tv sets attached adn pictures moved along with the beat of the music. It was really cool tho. I think this museum is great and worth it to go to bc you can spend hours in it and have fun =)
very nice collection.  so much better than sf moma, however the building is much nicer than in nyc.
God what to say about this gorgeous place without gushing... I don't even think its possible.  Dali, Monet, Manet, Van Gogh, Pollack, Lichtenstein, Warhol... and the list goes on.  I am in love with this place, I could spend days on end here if I lived in the NYC.  Granted it has its drawbacks but the place was created by humans wasn't it?  I think anything in the world can have its flaws laid out, but on the whole this place is awsome.  While I was here a free outdoor video exhibition on the walls of MoMA called Sleepwalkers was going on, pretty interesting (especially if you had the phone number for the curator/artist commentary).  Quite an interesting idea... check out the website for more info.  I came here as a tourist, and am no longer in possession of my college student ID, so I did have to pony up the $20 bucks to get in, but Van Gogh, Miron, and Dali are some of my favorite painters and its quite the feeling anytime im in the presence of their work so to me it was well worth the price of admission.
i like museums and all but this was alright. there were some off the wall peices that i just dont get. i like the campbell soup exhibit best because it was simple and sweet. the best part was i didnt pay for admission. we just happened to be there the first wednesday of the month.
When you visit Los Angeles you will visit the Getty. When you are in New York City you will visit the MOMA! The MOMA is the main museum in New York City you will not be disappointed because New York City never leaves anyone disappointed!
i love love moma, especially their photography collection. a great place to wander in alone, with so much to write about if that's your thing. you can spend hours here & it's well worth it.
The MoMA is one of those museums that you either love it, or hate it. Unless your indecisive like me! I thought some areas in the gallery were complete... well, I just didn't get it (LOL) but other areas of the museum were pretty cool. I really enjoyed the Van Gogh and Kirchner sections. Free admission tip: Every Friday night is the Target free night deal. Visit http://www.moma.org/visi… for more details. I bought our tickets here via the CityPass - http://www.trustedtours.… . If you go, make sure that you go with an open mind!
My favorite Manhattan Museum.  Really enjoyed the Munch exhibit they had recently, though it drew crazy crowds on the weekends.  Could easily lose myself in here with all of the awesome art- Magritte, Picasso, Braque.  I think the layout is part of the enjoyment- spacious, open, bright.  Don't forget it's free on Friday evenings, as ticket prices are a little steep.
Cool and interesting place ! Nice stuff to see !! Has to wait an hour at the entrance but hate the best brownie ever at lunch !
spectacular! so many thought-provoking pieces, ever changing, and the building itself is quite the work of architectural genius.
This museum is fantastic. It's extremely easy to navigate: all the galleries are numbered so you can easily tell where you've come from and if you've missed any room. Start from the top and work your way down, because the two painting & sculpture floors are definitely the highlight. I enjoyed browsing the contemporary galleries but they weren't as memorable. Be sure to browse the museum stores too - there's one in the museum and one across the street. Another thing I liked about MoMA is that photography is allowed throughout all the galleries, so photography enthusiasts should be sure to bring their cameras.
I really enjoyed my MoMA experience, as I do most museum experiences. I wish we had gotten there earlier because two hours is just not enough time to soak everything in. And if you're going to pay to see art, you really need to see it! I'd go back, but only after I've been to every other museum in NY first. I got a couple of bucks off for being a student, but I paid for Cal's full price ticket. The gift store line was super long, but it was pretty fast and the cashier was funny. They had a bunch of stuff on clearance, not sure if it was a post-holiday thing or not.
I liked most of what I saw here, but some things I could've gone the rest of my life without ever seeing. If you like modern art, then you'll like it here. Pretty simple. I was happy to see Van Gogh's "Starry Night" in person (one of my favorites) but disappointed that Dali's famous melting clocks was en route to somewhere else for the time I was in NY--just my luck!
it's the perfect dose of conceptual art, textbook classics, design and architecture. my only gripe is that the sculpture garden was closed.
It's basically the best modern art museum in the country.
It is almost impossible not to enjoy a trip to this extraordinary museum.  First time visitors:  don't forget to check out Van Gogh's The Starry Night.
ummm....i think the facility is a little too big and as such...very noisy, messy and confusing....
always turning it out!
$12 general (student) admission gets you into everything - special exhibits included. the museum itself is something to see. i could have spent the whole day there.
Love the permanent exhibits on the fourth and fifth floors.  The other permanent exhibits just don't do it for me. They also have great special exhibits.  I often go to the sculpture garden just to relax and enjoy the atmosphere (I'm a member, so admission is free).  The museum is free on Friday nights (thanks to Target) so if possible, check it out then.
This isn't in my opinion as good as the Met but I'm a history buff and obviously "Modern" is not historical in any sense but then 80 years and even 50 years is history when you are talking about Picasso and Pollock et al.
pretty good collection.  pretty nice to go free on friday.  also had a lot of fun at a movie screening of Eraserhead.
This review is about the cafe, not about the building or the art which also deserve five stars.  The cafe on the 2nd floor is worth the price of admission.  I don't know if MoMA runs is or leases it out but the menu is interesting, the food well-prepared, the pricing fair to inexpensive, and the service fabulous.  I had a cavatelli pasta with wild mushrooms in a broth with three kinds of beans - spectacular.  My wife had three bruschetta's, each prepared differently and they were terrific.  I've been a fan of the museum for a long time, but how can it get better than this?
this is my favorite contemporary / modern museum.  i could stay here for days.  there is so much to see.  best to go in the morning, as you will be spending a lot of time at each exhibit.  i went on friday when it was free (free after 4 on fri).  there was a 30 minute line to get in. i was rushing myself to get through as much as i could as we didnt have much time.   i barely had enough time to pick the surface. theres also a very nice restaurant next door.
great! good galleries good food good exhibitions 6 floors & underground LOL & 50% off when purchasing ticket online! =]
The MOMA was very nice place, tons of art to see. I just can't help but laugh at some of the art though....but these days everything is considered art.  Anyhow...very nice collection of the greats and beautiful architecture of the new building...Institutions like this deserve your money. Contribute and go check out this museum. P.S. get the audio guided tour. Much more interesting then just walking around without it.
if you are in NYC you have to vist the museum, it's large and fairly quick moving depending what your like are for me I enjoyed the suspended helicopter, was there on a wed and the wait for tix was less than five min and a quick tip don't rely on courtesy in the line segment look for one thats empty and move organization and courtesy do not exist here,(NYC).
Terrific museum, with a somewhat mazelike layout that you can lose yourself in.  Granted, it tends to get crowded with visitors of the "we have two hours to see everything!" variety and arrogant stroller pushers, but pick an exhibit and immerse yourself in it.  Chances are, the annoying visitors will breeze in and out in the time it takes you to look at just a few works of art.  The second floor cafe is a great place to grab a bite to eat, so you can easily spend an entire day here.  I just wish that some of the staff would drop the attitude, especially the snippy middle-aged woman at the second floor information desk.
I would say that the National portrait Gallery is a much better example of Modern art than the Moma..but who am I?  Just a person that enjoys Modern art. Was able to go for free on a Friday night due to Target.  Thanks Target.
I recommend buying your tickets in advance through the museum website or else you'll be waiting in some serious lines. Beyond the initial lines, the museum is such a treat. Make sure you purchase the audio tour and plan to spend several hours going through the exhibitions. Also, the cafe offers good sandwiches and coffees. One tip is that we went to the museum and had tickets right when it opened so it seemed a little less crowded then later in the day. The permanent exhibition is hard to beat.
Fridays 4pm-8pm are free to the public. While it was fairly busy, the museum is large enough to accommodate the large freebie crowd. While I don't completely appreciate modern art - like the bale of hay in the center of the room, we did like Warhol's exhibit and Jackson Pollock's artwork. Can't beat the price!
Magnificent renovation. The redesign has eased the claustrophobic interior, somewhat. I suppose the high gate charge acts, in part, as a crowd control measure. Galleries at peak time are flooded with cell-phone yakkers, clueless tourists, pompous culture-seekers, and assorted new yawkers. The place can quickly turn unbearable and the art almost unseeable as you jockey for your few inches of comfortable viewing space. You have to pick your time carefully, which means a willingness to pony up for the high admission fee. The special exhibitions tend to be well-planned and are rotated frequently. This place would be better served if it were located deep in the Canadian wild.
if you are a french tourist, please, do us all a favor and stay home (and no, you cannot cut the line because you are french. that does, however, qualify you for an ass-kickin). if you are a homeless person with schizophrenic tendencies and like to stalk the employees, please, do not renew your membership. i don't care if you are a little old lady who enjoys complaining and thinks being miserable is a competitive sport, next time you "lose" your ticket, accept it gracefully and shut the hell up. did you know that some people actually buy tickets? and lastly, when asking for the student admission, do not say you are a "student of life." every other person in line made that joke. be original: bring your student id (and no, german tourists, that does not mean your driver's license, your library card, or some birthday card your girlfriend made you). and most importantly, if it's pouring cats and dogs, do Not go to the museum. everyone in manhattan just woke up with the same brilliant idea, and you will be waiting outside in the pouring rain for a good hour before you can even buy tickets for the now-packed museum.
OK this is a review for museum membership more than the museum itself. Willem de Kooning is my favorite painter and I took two days in New York while traveling home from Quebec to California to get in as much time in as possible communing with some of my favorite art works ever in his current, awesome, retrospective at MoMA. Two admissions to the museum on consecutive days plus the hard cover catalogue would have come out to $125, but by buying a national membership for $60, I could come and go as I pleased and I also got a 20 per cent discount on the book, so I saved a few bucks.  But what made the membership totally worthwhile was their policy of admitting members an hour early in the morning. I was literally the first person there at 9:30 and I had the show almost completely to myself for 25 minutes, and then only had to share the space with a handful of other members up til the 10:30 opening when the crowds arrived. Even if I never use that membership again, it was probably the best $60 I've ever spent.
a monthly must for design loving new yorkers.
I've been here so many times that I know nearly every painting in the mainstay exhibit on modern art.  From Picasso to Van Gogh to Matisse to Mondrian, which happen to be some of my favorites, they are all so great and I would just want to take some of them and put them up in my house.  I'm a big fan of impressionism, so this museum is great.  The MOMA always seems to have really interesting special exhibits, although at times, they can be so modern that I just don't get them.  There's a certain point where I just can't appreciate the extremely modern art.  But I still like it, so it's all good.  I went when they had these huge sculptures that were like mazes and although it was pretty cool, I just didn't completely get the artiness of the sculptures.  I only felt like a mouse in a maze.  Anyway, the best part of the museum is the garden in the back near the entrance to all of the exhibits upstairs.  It's just a great place to hang when it's a nice day outside while the apartments across from it look so cool and interesting.  I know many people who've always wanted to live in the apartments across the street that have windows that pop out of the walls in a spherical shape.  The store is really cool, but pricey.  Some of their stuff though is worth the price at times just so many interesting pieces that actually could serve a purpose in your house, from light fixtures to kitchenware.  This museum definitely is a must and is not difficult to get to, just follow the line of tourists.
amazing.
