

Botty .
Friodan

"THE BOOK WE WERE WAITING FOR . . . THE
WISEST, SANEST, SOUNDEST, MOST UNDERSTAND·
ING AND COMPASSIONATE TREATMENT OF AMERI·
CAN WOMAN'S GREATEST PROBLEM."
-Ashley Montagu

"This is one of those rare books we are
endowed with only once in several decades;
a volume which launches a major social
movement, toward a more humane and
just society. Betty Friedan is a liberator of
women and men."
-Amitai Etzioni,
Chairman, Department of Sociology,
Columbia University

"The most important book of the twentieth
century . . . Betty Friedan is to women
what Martin Luther King was to blacks."
-Barbara Seaman, author of Free and Female

"It states the trouble with women so clearly
that every woman can recognize herself.
. . . Things are different between men and
women because we now have words for the
trouble. Betty gave them to us."
-Caroline Bird, author of
Everything a Woman Needs to Know
to Get Paid What She's Worth


Botty
Friodan
With aNew Introduction and Epilogue
by the Author

A DELL BOOK

~

I:

1'
~.

t

Published by
DELL PUBLISHING CO., INC.
1 Dag Hammarskjold Plaza
New York, New York 10017
Copyright


1974, 1963 by Betty Friedan

Selections from this book have appeared in
Mademoiselle © 1962 by the Conde Nast Publications, Inc.,
Ladies' Home Journal © 1963 by Betty Friedan and
McCall's © 1963 by Betty Friedan.
Introduction and Epilogue first published in the
New York Times Magazine. Copyright © 1973 by
Betty Friedan.
All rights reserved. For information contact
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.
New York, New York 10003
Dell ® TM 681510, Dell Publishing Co., Inc.
IBSN: 0-440-12498-0
Reprinted by arrangement with
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc.
Printed in the United States of America
Previous Dell Edition #2498
New Dell Edition
First printing-September 1977
Second printing-June 1979

I


For all the new women,
and the new men

CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION

1

PREFACE AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

7

ONE
THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

11

TWO
THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

28

THREE
THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY

62

FOUR
THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

73

FI VE
THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM
OF SIGMUND FREUD

95

SIX
THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE,
THE FEMININE PROTEST,
AND MARGARET MEAD

117

SEVEN
THE SEX-DIRECTED EDUCATORS

142"

I,,

f

!

EI GHT
THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

174

N I NE
THE SEXUAL SELL

191

TEN
HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO
FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

224

ELEVEN
THE SEX-SEEKERS

241

TWELVE
PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION:
THE COMFORTABLE CONCENTRATION CAMP

271

THIRTEEN
THE FORFEITED SELF

299

FOURTEEN
A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

326

EPILOGUE

365

NOTES

381

INDEX

409

INTRODUCTION
THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY EDITION

JO

IT IS A DECADE NOW SINCE THE PUBLICATION OF

The Feminine Mystique, and until I started writing the
book, I wasn't even conscious of the woman problem.
Locked as we all were then in that mystique, which kept
us passive and apart, and kept us from seeing our real
problems and possibilities, I, like other women, thought
there was something wrong with me because I didn't have
an orgasm waxing the kitchen floor. I was a freak, writing
that book-not that I waxed any floor, I must admit, in
the throes of finishing it in 1963.
Each of us thou ht she was a freak ten ears a 0 if she
didn't expenence~~~ ~~ious or~ashc
ment the
Commercials prom;;;ed 3i/h;;; waxing the kitchen floor.
""HOWever much we enjoyed being Junior's and Janey"S or~
Emily's mother, or B.J.'s wife, if we still had amibitions,
ideas about ourselves as people in our own right-well,
we were simply freaks, neurotics, and we confessed our
sin or neurosis to priest or psychoanalyst, and tried hard
to adjust. We didn't admit it to each other if we felt there
should be more In hfe {han eanut-butter sandWIches WIth
e kids,
throwing power In 0
was ng mac ine
didn't make us relive our wedding night, if getting the
socks or shirts pure white was not exactly a peak experience, even if we did feel guilty about the tattletale gray.
Some of us (in 1963, nearly half of all women in the
United States) Were already commIftmg me UnpardObable
SIn of working outside the home to belp pay the mortgage
"or W'0cery tid!. Those who did felt guilty, too-about be~mg their femimmty, yndermining their husbands' masculImty, and neglecting their children by daring to work
for money at all, no matter how much it was needed.
They couldn't admit, even to themselves; that the:ll- resentt:..d being paid half what a man would have been paid for

2

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the job, or always being passed over for promotion, or
writing the paper for which he got the degree and the
raise.
A suburban neighbor of mine named Gertie was having
coffee with me when the census taker came as I was writing The Feminine Mystique. "Occupation?" the census
taker asked, "Housewife," I said. Gertie, who had cheered
me on in my efforts at writing and seIling magazine articles, shook her head sadly. "You should take yourself
more seriously," she said. I hesitated, and then said to the
census taker, "Actually, I'm a writer." But, of course, I
then was, and still am, like all married women in America, no matter what else we do between 9 and 5, a housewife. Of co se single women di 't
"house. ".
the cens
e came around ut even ere ,
society was less interested in what these women were
~persons in the world than in askmg, "WhY lsn~
'IiiCegiIi like you married.:E And so they: too, were~
~ged to take themselves seriously.
It seems such a precarious accident that I ever wrote
the book at all-but, in another way, my whole life had
prepared me to write that book. All the pieces finally
came together. In 1957, getting strangely bored with writing articles about breast feeding and the like for Redbook
and the Ladies' Home Journal, I put an unconscionable
amount of time into a questionnaire for my fellow Smith
graduates of the class of 1942, thinking I was going
. ove the current notion that education had fitted us ill
for our ro e as women. But t e questionnaire raised more
questions than it answered for me-education had not exactly geared us to the role women he~ng tQ..PW. it
seemed. The suspicion arose as to weer it was the education or the role 'that was wrong. McCall's commissioned
an article based on my Smith alumnae questionnaire, but
the then male publisher of McCall's, during that great era
of togetherness, turned the piece down in horror, despite
underground efforts of female editors. The male McCall's
editors said it couldn't be true.
I was next commissioned to do the article for Ladies'
Home Journal. That time I took it back, because they
rewrote it to say just the opposite of what, in fact, I was
trying to say. I tried it again for Redbook. Each time I
was interviewing more women, psychologists, sociologists,

INTRODUCTION

3

marriage counselors, and the like and getting more and
-more sure I was on the track of something. But what? I
needed a name for whatever it was that kept us from
using our rights, that made us feel guilty about anything
we did not as our husbands' wives, our children's mothers,
but as people ourselves. I needed a name to describe that
guilt. uolike tbe guilt women used to feel about sexual
needs, the guilt they felt now was about needs
. ,
t e sexua e 1 on 0 women, the mystique of feminine fulfillment-the femmme mystique.
"The editor of Redbook told my agent, "Betty has gone
off her rocker. She has always done a good job for us, but
this time only the most neurotic housewife could
identify." I opened my agent's letter on the subway as I
was taking the kids to the pediatrician. I got off the subway to call my agent and told her, "I'll have to write a
book to get this into print." What I Was writing threatened the very foundations of the women's magazIne
World-the feminine mystique.
When Norton contracted for the book, I thought it
would take a year to finish it; it took five. I wouldn't have
even started it if the New York Public Library had not, at
just the right time, opened the Frederick Lewis Allen
Room, where writers working on a book could get a desk,
six months at a time, rent free. I got a baby-sitter three
days a week and took the bus from Rockland County to
the city and somehow managed to prolong the six months
to two years in the Allen Room, enduring much joking
from other writers at lunch when it came out that I was
writing a book about women. Then, somehow, the book
took me over, obsessed me, wanted to write itself, and I
took my papers home and wrote on the dining-room table,
the living-room couch, on a neighbor's dock on the river,
and kept on writing it in my mind when I stopped to take
the kids somewhere or make dinner, and went back to it
after they were in bed.
I have never experienced anything as powerful, truly
mystical, as the forces that seemed to take me over when
I was writing The Feminine Mystique. The book came
from somewhere deep within me and all my experience
came together in it: my mother's discontent, my own
training in Gestalt and Freudian psychology, the fellowship I felt guilty about giving up, the stint as a reporter

4

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

which taught me how to follow clues to the hidden
economic underside of reality, my exodus to the suburbs
and all the hours with other mothers shopping at supermarkets, taking the children swimming, coffee klatches.
Even the years of writing for women's magazines when it
was unquestioned gospel that women could identify with
nothing beyond the home-not politics, not art, not
science, not events large or small, war or peace, in the
United States or the world, unless it could be approached
through female experience as a wife or mother or translated into domestic detail I I could no longer write within
that framework. The book I was now writing challenged
the very definition of that universe-what I chose to call
the feminine mystique. Giving it a name, I knew that it
was not the only possible universe for women at all but an
unnatural confining of our energies and vision. But as I
began following leads and clues from women's words and
my own feelings, across psychology, sociology, and recent
history, tracing back-through the pages of the magazines
for which I'd written-why and how it happened, what it
was really doing to women, to their children, even to sex,
the implications became apparent and they were fantastic.
I was surprised myself at what I was writing, where it was
leading. After I finished each chapter, a part of me would
wonder, Am I crazy? But there was also a growing feeling
of calm, strong, gut-sureness as the clues fitted together,
which must be the same kind of feeling a scientist has
when he or she zeroes in on a discovery in one of those
true-science detective stories.
Qnly this was not just abstract and conceptual. It meant
tpat I and eyery other woman I knew had been hvmg a
lie,
all the doctors who treated us and the experts
WDostudie us were e etuatm
at Ie
ur omesa
sc 00 s an churches and politics and professions
were built around that lie. If women were really peopleno more, no less--then all the things that kept them from
being full people in our society would have to be changed.
And women, once they broke through the feminine mystique and took themselves seriously as people, would see
~the.i; place on a false pedestal, even their glorification as
sexual objects, for the putdown it was.
Yet if I had realized how fantastically fast that would
really happen-already in less than ten years' time--

INTRODUCTION

5

maybe I would have been so scared I might have stopped
writing. It's frightening when you're starting on a new
road that no one has been on before. You don't know
how far it's going to take you until you look back and realize how far, how very far you've gone. When the first
woman asked me, in 1963, to autograph The Feminine
Mystique, saying what by now hundreds-thousands, I
guess--of women have said to me, "It changed my whole
life," I wrote, "Courage to us all on the new road." Because there is no turning back on that road. It has to
change your whole life; it certainly changed mine.
Betty Friedan
New York, 1973

PREFACE AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
GRADUALLY, WITHOUT SEEING IT CLEARLY FOR QUITE

a while, I came to realize that something is very wrong with
the way American women are trying to live their lives today. I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a
wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and
therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using
my abilities and education in work that took me away from
home. It was this personal question mark that led me, in
1957, to spend a great deal of time doing an intensive questionnaire of my college classmates, fifteen years after our
graduation from Smith. The answers given by 200 women
to, those intimate open-ended questions made me realize
that what was wrong could not be related to education in
the way it was then believed to be. The problems and satisfaction of their lives, and mine, and the way our education
had contributed to them, simply did not fit the image of
the modern American woman as she was written about in
women's magazines, studied and analyzed in classrooms and
clinics, praised and damned in a ceaseless barrage of words
ever since the end of World War II. There was a strange
discre anc between the real it of our lives as women and
the image to which we were try1Pg to cont rm, e unage
that I came to call the feminine mystique. I wondered if
other women faced this schizophrenic split, and what it
meant.
-And so I began to hunt down the origins of the feminine
mystique, and its effect on women who lived by it, or grew
up under it. My methods were simply those of a reporter
on the trail of a story, except I soon discovered that this
was no ordinary story. For the startling pattern that began
to emerge, as one clue led me to another in far-flung fields
of modern thought and life, defied not only the conventional image but basic psychological assumptions about women.
I found a few pieces of the puzzle in previolls studies of
women: but not many, for women in the past have been
studied in terms of the feminine mystique. The Mellon
study of Vassar women was provocative, SimonITeBean:-

8

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

)ii~g~t(~.trench ~m~.... the work of M!rra--Ko,A. . aslow, Alva Myrdal. I found even more
provocative the growing body of new psychological thought
on the question of man's identity, whose implications for
women seem not to have been realized. I found further
evidence by questioning those who treat women's ills and
problems. And I traced the growth of the mystique by talking to editors of women's magazines, advertising motivational researchers, and theoretical experts on women in the
fields of psychology, psychoanalysis, anthropology, sociology, and family-life education. But the puzzle did not begin
to fit together until I interviewed at some depth, from two
hours to two days each, eighty women at certain crucial
points in their life cycle---high school and college girls facing or evading the question of who they were; young housewives and mothers for whom, if the mystique were right,
there should be no such question and who thus had no
name for the problem troubling them; and women who
faced a jumping-off point at forty. These women, some tortured, some serene, gave me the final clues, and the most
damning indictment of the feminine mystique.
I could not, however, have written this book without the
assistance of many experts, both eminent theoreticians and
practical workers in the field, and, indeed, without the cooperation of many who themselves believe and have helped
perpetrate the feminine mystique. I was helped by many
present and former editors of women's magazines, including Peggy Bell, John English, Bruce Gould, Mary Ann Guitar, James Skardon, Nancy Lynch, Geraldine Rhoads, Robert Stein, Neal Stuart and Polly Weaver; by Ernest Dichter
and the staff of the Institute for Motivational Research; and
by Marion Skedgell, former editor of the Viking Press, who
gave me her data from an unfinished study of fiction heroines. Among behavioral scientists, theoreticians and thera, pists in the field, lowe a great debt to William Menaker
and John Landgraf of New York University, A. H. Maslow
of Brandeis, John Dollard of Yale, William J. Goode of
Columbia; to Margaret Mead; to Paul Vahamian of Teachers College, Elsa Siipola Israel and Eli Chinoy of Smith.
And to Dr. Andras Angyal, psychoanalyst of Boston, Dr.
Nathan Ackerman of New York, Dr. Louis English and Dr.
Margaret Lawrence of the Rockland County Mental Health
Center; to many mental health workers in Westchester
County, including Mrs. Emily Gould, Dr. Gerald Fountain,

PREFACE AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

9

Dr. Henrietta Glatzer and Marjorie Ilgenfritz of the Guidance Center of New Rochelle and the Rev. Edgar Jackson;
Dr. Richard Gordon and Katherine Gordon of Bergen
County, New Jersey; the late Dr. Abraham Stone, Dr. Lena
Levine and Fred Jaffe of the Planned Parenthood Association, the staff of the James Jackson Putnam Center in Boston, Dr. Doris Menzer and Dr. Somers Sturges of the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital, Alice King of the Alumnae Advisory Center and Dr. Lester Evans of the Commonwealth
Fund. I am also grateful to those educators valiantly fighting the feminine mystique, who gave me helpful insights:
Laura Bornholdt of Wellesley, Mary Bunting of Radcliffe,
Marjorie Nicolson of Columbia, Esther Lloyd-Jones of
Teachers College, Millicent McIntosh of Barnard, Esther
Raushenbush of Sarah Lawrence, Thomas, Mendenhall of
Smith, Daniel Aaron and many other members of the
Smith faculty. I am above all grateful to the women who
shared their problems and feelings with me, beginning with
200 women of Smith, 1942, and Marion Ingersoll Howell
and Anne Mather Montero, who worked with me on the
alumnae questionnaire that started my search.
Without that superb institution, the Frederick Lewis Allen Room of the New York Public Library and its provision
to a writer of quiet work space and continuous access to
research sources, this particular mother of three might never have started a book, much less finished it. The same
might be said of the sensitive support of my publisher,
George P. Brockway, and my editor, Burton Beals, of
W. W. Norton & Company. In a larger sense, this book
might never have been written if I had not had a most unusual education in psychology, from Kurt KoiIka, Harold
Israel, Elsa Siipola and James Gibson at Smith; from Kurt
Lewin, Tamara Dembo, and the others of their group then
at Iowa; and from E. C. Tolman, Jean Macfarlane, Nevitt
Sanford and Erik Erikson at Berkeley-a liberal education,
in the best sense, which was meant to be used, though I
have not used it as I originally planned.
The insights, interpretations both of theory and fact, and
the implicit values of this book are inevitably my own. But
whether or not the answers I present here are final-and
there are many questions which social scientists must probe
further-the dilemma of the American woman is real. At
the present time, many experts, finally forced to recognize
this problem, are redoubling their efforts to adjust women

,-I

10

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

to it in terms of the feminine mystique. My answers may
disturb the experts and women alike, for they imply social
change. But there would be no sense in my writing this book
at all if I did not believe that women can affect society, as
well as be affected by it; that, in the end, a woman, as a
man, has the power to choose, and to make her own heaven
or hell.
Grandview, New York
June 1957-July 1962

ONE
THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME
THE PROBLEM LAY BURIED, UNSPOKEN, FOR MANY

years in the minds of American women. It was a strange
stirring, a sense of dissatisfaction, a yearning that women
suffered in the middle of the twentieth century in the United States. Each suburban wife struggled with it alone. As
she made the beds, shopped for groceries, matched slipcover material, ate peanut butter sandwiches with her children,
chauffeured Cub Scouts and Brownies, lay beside her husband at night-she was afraid to ask even of herself the silent question-HIs this all?"
For over fifteen years there was no word of this yearning in the millions of words written about women, for women, in all the columns, books and articles by experts telling
women their role was to seek fulfillment as wives and
mothers. Over and over women heard in voices of tradition
and of Freudian sophistication that they could desire no
greater destiny than to glory in their own femininity. Experts told them how to catch a man and keep him, how to
breast feed children and handle their toilet training, how to
cope with sibling rivalry and adolescent rebellion; how to
buy a dishwasher, bake bread, cook gourmet snails, and
build a swimming pool with their own hands; how to dress,
look, and act more feminine and make marriage more exciting; how to keep their husbands from dying young and
their sons from growing into delinquents. They were taught
to pity the neurotic, unfeminine, unhappy women who
wanted to be poets or physicists or presidents. They learned
that truly feminine women do not want careers, higher education, political rights-the independence and the opportunities that the old-fashioned feminists fought for. Some
women, in their forties and fifties, still remembered painfully giving up those dreams, but most of the younger women no longer even thought about them. A thousand expert
voices applauded their femininity, their adjustment, their
new maturity. All they had to do was devote their lives

12

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

from earliest girlhood to finding a husband and bearing
children.
By the end of th~ nineteen-fifties, the average marriage
age of women in America dropped to 20, and was still
dropping, into the teens. Fourteen million girls were engaged by 17. The proportion of women attending college in
comparison with men dtoppmg from 47 per cent m 1910t0
35 per cent in 1958. A century e~~ir, ~p. bad fougbt
im'1ii her educatIOn; now iris wen 0 co Ie e to t husban. y e mid-fifties, 60 per cent droppe out of college
ro-marry, or oecau:se they were afraid too much educatIon
-w6lIlObe a marriage bar. Colleges built dormitories for
"married students," but the students were almost always
the husbands. 4.yew degree was instituted for the wives·~Ph.T." (putting Husband Through).
Then American girls began ge~ married in high school.
And the women's magazines, deploring the unhappy statistics about these young marriages, urged that courses on
marriage, and marriage counselors, be installed in the high
schools. Girls started going steady at twelve and thirteen,
in junior high. Manufacturers put out brassieres with false
bosoms of foam rubber for little girls of ten. And an advertisement for a child's dress, sizes 3-6x, in the New York
Times in the fall of 1960, said: "She Too Can Join the
Man-Trap Set."
By the end of the fifties, the United States birthrate was
overtaking India's. The birth-control movement, renamed
Planned Parenthood, was asked to find a method whereby
women who had been advised that a third or fourth baby
would be born dead or defective might have it anyhow.
Statisticians were especially astounded at the fantastic increase in the number of babies among college women.
Where once they had two children, now they had four,
five, six. Women who had once wanted careers were now
making careers out of having babies. So rejoiced Lite magazine in a 1956 paean to the movement of American women back to the home.
In a New York hospital, a woman had a nervous breakdown when she found she could not breast feed her baby.
J-o-o.tll~ hospitals. women d~of cancer refused a.--drug
which research had provedl!!ight save their li~: i1S_ side
[ffects were said to be unfeminine~ "If I have only one life,
-letri,e live it as a blonde," a larger-than-life-sized picture of
a pretty, vacuous woman proclaimed from newspaper,

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

13

magazine, and drugstore ads. And across America, three
out of every ten women dyed their hair blonde. They ate a
chalk called Metrecal, instead of food, to shrink to the size
of the thin young models. Department-store buyers reported that American women, since 1939, had become three
and four sizes smaller. "Women are out to fit the clothes,
instead of vice-versa," one buyer said.
Interior decorators were designing kitchens with mosaic
murals and original paintings, for kitchens were once again
the center of women's lives. Home sewing became a
million-dolIar industry. Many women no longer left their
homes, except to shop, chauffeur their children, or attend
a social engagement with their husbands. Girls were growing up in America without ever having jobs outside the
home. In the late fifties, a sociological phenomenon was
suddenly remarked: a third of American women now
worked, but most were no longer young and very few were
pursuing careers. They were married women who held parttime jobs, selling or secretarial, to put their husbands
through school, their sons through college, or to help pay
the mortgage. Or they were widows supporting families.
Fewer and fewer women were entering professional work.
The shortages in the nursing, social work, and teaching professions caused crises in almost every American city. Concerned over the Soviet Union's lead in the space race,
scientists noted that America's greatest source of unused
frain-power was women. But girls would not stud¥- ph¥sics:
it was "unfeminine." A girl r\!fused a science fellowship at
Johns Hopkins to take a job in a real-estate office. All she
wanted, she said, was what every other American girl wanted-to get married, have four children and live in a nice
house in a nice suburb.
The suburban housewife-she was the dream ~~e of
thCyoung AmerIcan women and the e
it waF i 0i
women
over the world. The American housewife--freed
bY sCIence and labor-saving appliances from the drudgery,
the dangers of childbirth and the illnesses of her grandmother. She was healthy, beautiful, educated. concerned
o.!}ly about her husfiilid, her chjldren , her home. She had
found true feminine fulfillment. As a housewife and mothe;,~ respected as a full and equal partner to man in
his world. She w~s free to choose automohiles. clothes,~p­
pliances, supermarkets; she had everything that womeD ever dreamed of.

14

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

In the fifteen years after World War II, this mystique of
feminine fulfillment became the cherished and self-perpetuating core of contemporary American culture. Millions of
women lived their lives in the image of those pretty pictures
of the American suburban housewife, kissing their husbands
goodbye in front of the picture window, depositing their
stationwagonsful of children at school, and smiling as they
ran the new electric waxer over the spotless kitchen floor.
They- baked their own bread, sewed their own and their
children's clothes, kept their new washing machines and
dryers running all day. They changed the sheets on the beds
twice a week instead of once, took the rug-hooking class in
adult education" and pitied their poor frustrated mothers,
who had dreamed of having a career. Their only dream
was to be perfect wives and mothers; their highest ambition to have five children and a beautiful house, their only
fight to get and keep their husbands. They had no thought
for the unfeminine problems of the world outside the home;
they wanted the men to make the major decisions. They
gloried in their role as women, and wrote proudly on the
census blank: "Occupation: housewife."
For over fifteen years, the words written for women,
and the words women used when they talked to each other,
while their husbands sat on the other side of the room and
talked shop or politics or septic tanks, were about problems with their children, or how to keep their husbands
happy, or imp,rove their children's school, or cook chicken
or make slipcovers. Nobody argued whether women were
inferior or superior to men; they were simply different.
Words like "emancipation" and "career" sounded strange
and embarrassing; no one had used them for years. When
a Frenchwoman named Simone de Beauvoir wrote a book
called The Second Sex, an American critic commented that
she obviously "didn't know what life was all about," and
besides, she was talking about French women. The "woman
problem" in America no longer existed.
If a woman had a problem in the 1950's and 1960's, she
knew that something must be wrong with her marriage, or
with herself. Other women were satisfied with their lives,
she thought. Whal kind of a woman was she if she did not
feel this mysterious fulfillment waxing the kitchen floor?
She was so ashamed to admit her dissatisfaction that she
never knew how many other women shared it. If she tried
to tell her husband, he didn't understand what she was talk-

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

15

ing about. She did not really understand it herself. For over
fifteen years women in America found it harder to talk
about this problem than about sex. Even the psychoanalysts had no name for it. When a woman went to a psychiatrist for help, as many women did, she would say,
"I'm so ashamed," or "I must be hopelessly neurotic." "I
don't know what's wrong with women today," a suburban
psychiatrist said uneasily. "I only know something is wrong
because most of my patients happen to be women. And
their problem isn't sexual." Most women with this problem
did not go to see a psychoanalyst, however. "There's nothing wrong really," they kept telling themselves. "There isn't
any problem."
But on an April morning in 1959, I heard a mother of
four, having coffee with four other mothers in a suburban
development fifteen miles from New York, say in a tone
of quiet desperation, "the problem." And the others knew,
without words, that she was not talking about a problem
with her husband, or her children, or her home. Suddenly
they realized they all shared the same problem, the problem that has no name. They began, hesitantly, to talk about
it. Later, after they had picked up their children at nursery
school and taken them home to nap, two of the women
cried, in sheer relief, just to know they were not alone.
Gradually I came to realize that the problem that has no
name was shared by countless women in America. As a
magazine writer I often interviewed women about problems with their children, or their marriages, or their houses,
or their communities. But after a while I began to recognize the telltale signs of this other problem. I saw the same
signs in suburban ranch houses and split-levels on Long Island and in New Jersey and Westchester County; in colonial houses in a small Massachusetts town; on patios in
Memphis; in suburban and city apartments; in living rooms
in the Midwest. Sometimes I sensed the problem, not as a
reporter, but as a suburban housewife, for during this time
I was also bringing up my own three children in Rockland
County, New York. I heard echoes of the problem in college dormitories and semi-private maternity wards, at PTA
meetings and luncheons of the League of W omen Voters,
at suburban cocktail parties, in station wagons waiting for
trains, and in snatches of conversation overheard at
Schrafft's. The groping words I heard from other women,

16

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

on quiet afternoons when children were at school or on
quiet evenings when husbands worked late, I think I understood first as a woman long before I understood their larger social and psychological implications.
Just what was this problem that has no name? What
were the words women used when they tried to express it?
Sometimes a woman would say "I feel empty somehow
. . . incomplete." Or she would say, "I feel as if I don't
exist." Sometimes she blotted out the feeling with a tranquilizer. Sometimes she thought the problem was with her
husband, or her children, or that what she really needed
was to redecorate her house, or move to a better neighborhood, or have an affair, or another baby. Sometimes,
she went to a doctor with symptoms she could hardly describe: "A tired feeling . . . I get so angry with the children it scares me . . . I feel like crying without any reason." (A Cleveland doctor called it "the housewife's
syndrome.") A number of women told me about great
bleeding blisters that break out on their hands and arms. "I .
call it the housewife's blight," said a family doctor in Pennsylvania. "I see it so often lately in these young women with
four, five and six children who bury themselves in their
dishpans. But it isn't caused by detergent and it isn't cured
by cortisone."
Sometimes a woman would tell me that the feeling gets
so strong she runs out of the house and walks through the
streets. Or she stays inside her house and cries. Or her children tell her a joke, and she doesn't laugh because she
doesn't hear it. I talked to women who had spent years on
the analyst's couch, working out their "adjustment to the
feminine role," their blocks to "fulfilJment as a wife and
mother." But the desperate tone in these women's voices,
and the look in their eyes, was the same as the tone and the
look of other women, who were sure they had no problem,
even though they did have a strange feeling of desperation.
A mother of four who left college at nineteen to get married told me:
I've tried everything women are supposed to do--hobhies, gardening, pickling, canning, being very social with
my neighbors, joining committees, running PTA teas. I
can do it all, and I like it, but it doesn't leave you anything to think about-any feeling of who you are. I never
had any career ambitions. All I wanted was to get mar-

THE PROB.LEM THAT HAS NO NAME

17

ried and have four children. I love the kids and Bob and
my home. There's no problem you can even put a name
to. But I'm desperate. I begin to feel I have no personality. I'm a server of food and putter-on of pants and a
bedmaker, somebody who can be called on when you
want something. But who am I?
A twenty-three-year-old mother in blue jeans said:
I ask myself why I'm so dissatisfied. I've got my
health, fine children, a lovely new home, enough money.
My husband has a real future as an electronics engineer.
He doesn't have any of these feelings. He says maybe I
need a vacation, let's go to New York for a weekend.
But that isn't it. I always had this idea we should do
everything together. I can't sit down and read a book
alone. If the children are napping and I have one hour to
myself I just walk through the house waiting for them to
wake up. I don't make a move until I know where the
rest of the crowd is going. It's as if ever since you were
a little girl, there's always been somebody or something
that will take care of your life: your parents, or coIlege,
or falling in love, or having a child, or moving to a new
house. Then you wake up one morning and there's nothing to look forward to.

A young wife in a Long Island development said:
I seem to sleep so much. I don't know why I should be
so tired. This house isn't nearly so hard to clean as the
cold-water flat we had when I was working. The children
are at school all day. It's not the work. I just don't feel
alive.
In 1960, the problem that has no name burst like a boil
through the image of the happy American housewife. In the
television commercials the pretty housewives still beamed
over their foaming dishpans and Time's cover story on ''The
Suburban Wife, an American Phenomenon" protested:
"Having too good a time . . . to believe that they should
be unhappy." But the actual unhappiness of the American
housewife was suddenly being reported-from the New
York Times and Newsweek to Good Housekeeping and
CBS Television ("The Trapped Housewife"), although al-

18

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

most everybody who talked about it found some superficial
reason to dismiss it. It was attributed to incompetent appliance repairmen (New York Times), or the distances
children must be chauffeured in the suburbs (Time), or too
much PTA (Redbook). Some said it was the old problem
-education: more and rii6r'e"';omen a e ucatlOn
c
~ rna e t em u
a
III t elf ro e as housewives.
"The road from reud to Frigidaire, from op oc es 0
Spock, has turned out to be a bumpy one," reported the
New York Times (June 28, 1960). "Many young women
--certainly not all-whose education plunged them into a
world of ideas feel stifled in their homes. They find their
routine lives out of joint with their training. Like shut-ins,
they feel left out. In the last year, the problem of the educated housewife has provided the meat of dozens of
speeches made by troubled presidents of women's colleges
who maintain, in the face of complaints, that sixteen years
of academic training is realistic preparation for wifehood
and motherhood."
There was much sympathy for the educated housewife.
("Like a two-headed schizophrenic . . . once she wrote a
paper on the Graveyard poets; now she writes notes to the
milkman. Once she determined the boiling point of sulphuric acid; now she determines her boiling point with the overdue repairman. . . . The housewife often is reduced to
screams and tears. . . . No one, it seems, is appreciative,
least of all herself, of the kind of person she becomes in
the process of turning from poetess into shrew.")
Home economists suggested more realistic preparation
for housewives, such as high-school workshops in home
appliances. College educators suggested more discussion
groups on home management and the family, to prepare
women for the adjustment to domestic life. A spate of articles appeared in the mass magazines offering "Fifty-eight
Ways to Make Your Marriage More Exciting." No month
went by without a new book by a psychiatrist or sexologist
offering technical advice on finding greater fulfillment
through sex.
A male humorist joked in Harper's Bazaar (July, 1960)
that the problem could be solved by taking away woman's
right to vote. ("In the pre-19th Amendment era, the American woman was placid, sheltered and sure of her role in
American society. She left all the political decisions to her

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

19

husband and be, in turn, left all the family decisions to her.
Today a woman bas to make both the family and the political decisions, and it's too much for ber.")
A number of educators suggested seriously that women
no longer be admitted to the four-year colleges and universities: in the growing college crisis, the education which
girls could not use as housewives was more urgently needed than ever by boys to do the work of the atomic age.
The problem was also dismissed with drastic solutions
no one could take seriously. (A woman writer proposed in
Harper's that women be drafted for compulsory service as
nurses' aides and baby-sitters.) And it was smootbed over
with the age-old panaceas: "love is their answer," "the only
answer is inner help," "the secret of completeness--children," "a private means of intellectual fulfillment," "to
cure this toothache of the spirit-the simple formula of
banding one's self and one's will over to God."l
lem was dismissed by telling the housewife she
doesn't realize how uc
s e 1S- er own oss, no
'£Iock, no junior executive gunnmg or er JO.
at 1 s e
isn't happy-does she think men are happy in this world?
Does she really, secretly, still want to be a man? Doesn't
she know yet how lucky she is to be a woman?
The problem was also, and finally, dismissed by shrugging that there are no solutions: this is what being a woman
means, and what is wrong with American women that they
can't accept their role gracefully? As Newsweek put it
(March 7, 1960):
She is dissatisfied with a lot that women of other lands
can only dream of. Her discontent is deep, pervasive,
and impervious to the superficial remedies which are offered at every hand. . . . An army of professional explorers have already charted the major sources of trouble. . . . From the beginning of time, the female cycle
has defined and confined woman's role. As ~ was
credited with saying: "Anatomy isdestiBY." 1tlough no
group of women has ever pushed these natural restrictions as far as the American wife, it seems that she still
cannot accept them with good grace, . . . A young
mother with a beautiful family, charm, talent and brains
is apt to dismiss her role apologetically. "What do I do?"
you hear her say. "Why nothing. I'm just a housewife."

20

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

A good education, it seems, has given this paragon among
women an understanding of the value of everything except her own worth . . .
And so she must accept the fact that "American women's unhappmess IS merely the most recentl won of womn s fig ts, an
JUS an
say WIt the happy housewife
'-fOund 5y Newsweek: "We ought to salute the wonderful
freedom we all have and be proud of our lives today. I
have had college and I've worked, but being a housewife is
the most rewarding and satisfying role. . . . My mother
was never included in my father's business affairs . . . she
couldn't get out of the house and away from us children.
But I am an equal to my husband; I can go along with him
on business trips and to social business affairs."
The alternative offered was a choice that few women
would contemplate. In the sympathetic words of the New
York Times: "All admit to being deeply frustrated at times
by the lack of privacy, the physical burden, the routine of
family life, the confinement of it. However, none would
give up her home and family if she had the choice to make
again." Redbook commented: "Few women would want to
thumb their noses at husbands, children and community
and go off on their own. Those who do may be talented individuals, but they rarely are successful women."
The year American women's discontent boiled over, it
was also reported (Look) that the more than 21,000,000
American women who are single, widowed, or divorced do
not cease even after fifty their frenzied, desperate search
for a man, And the search begins early-for seventy per
cent of all American women now marry before they are
twenty-four, A pretty twenty-five-year-old secretary took
thirty-five different jobs in six months in the futile hope of
finding a husband, Wom'en were moving from one political
club to another, taking evening courses in accounting or
sailing, learning to play golf or ski, joining a number of
churches in succession, going to bars alone, in their ceaseless search for a man.
Of the growing thousands of women currently getting private psychiatric help in the United States, the married ones
were reported dissatisfied with their marriages, the unmarried ones suffering from anxiety and, finally, depression,
Strangely, a number of psychiatrists stated that, in their experience, unmarried women patients were happier than

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

21

married ones. So the door of all those pretty suburban
houses opened a crack to permit a glimpse of uncounted
thousands of American housewives who suffered alone
from a problem that suddenly everyone was talking about,
and beginning to take for granted, as one of those unreal
problems in American life that can never be solved-like
the hydrogen bomb. By 1962 the plight of the trapped
American housewife had become a national parlor game.
Whole issues of magazines, newspaper columns, books
learned and frivolous, educational conferences and television panels were devoted to the problem.
Even so, most men, and some women, still did not know
that this problem was real. But those who had faced it
honestly knew that all the superficial remedies, the sympathetic advice, the scolding words and the cheering words
were somehow drowning the problem in unreality. A bitter
laugh was beginning to be heard from American women.
They were admired, envied, pitied, theorized over until
they were sick of it, offered drastic solutions or silly choices
that no one could take seriously. They got all kinds of advice from the growing armies of marriage and child-guidance counselors, psychotherapists, and armchair psychologists, on how to adjust to their role as housewives. No other
road to fulfillment was offered to American women in the
middle of the twentieth century. Most adjusted to their role
and suffered or i 0
e roblem that has 0
can e ess painful for a woman, not to hear the strange,
.'fiissatisfied voice stirring withIn her.

It is no longer possible to ignore that voice, to dismiss the
desperation of so many American women. This is not what
being a woman means, no matter what the experts say. For
human suffering there is a reason; perhaps the reason has
not been found because the right questions have not been
asked, or pressed far enough. I do not accept the answer
that there is no problem because American women have
luxuries that women in other times and lands never
dreamed of; part of the strange newness of the problem is
that it cannot be understood in terms of the age-old material problems of man: poverty, sickness, hunger, cold.
The women who suffer this problem have a hunger that
food cannot fill. It persists in women whose husbands are
struggling internes and law clerks, or prosperous doctors and
lawyers; in wives of workers and executives who make

22

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

$5,000 a year or $50,000. It is not caused by lack of material advantages; it may not even be felt by women preoccupied with desperate problems of hunger, poverty or illness. And women who think it will be solved by more
money, a bigger house, a second car, moving to a better
suburb, often discover it gets worse.
lt is no longer possible today to blameJluL.p.rab.lenL.Oll
~@JliAiRity·...tu]iy that edu~Qll_aruUndep.endence
~ali!y with men have mad~ American womelW.lD.:o
'1eminigi. I have heard so many women try to deny this
dissatisfied voice within themselves because it does not fit
the pretty picture of femininity the experts have given
them. I think, in fact, that this is the first clue to the mystery: the problem cannot be understood in the generally
accepted terms by which scientists have studied women,
doctors have treated them, counselors have advised them,
and writers have written about them. Women who suffer
this problem, in whom this voice is stirring, have lived their
whole lives in the pursuit of feminine fulfillment. They are
not career women (although career women may have other problems); they are women whose greatest ambition has
been marriage and children. For the oldest of these women,
these daughters of the American middle class, no other
dream was possible. The ones in their forties and fifties
who once had other dreams gave them up and threw themselves joyously into life as housewives. For the youngest,
the new wives and mothers, this was the only dream. They
are the ones who quit high school and college to marry, or
marked time in some job in which they had no real interest
until they married. These women are very "feminine" in
the usual sense, and yet they still suffer the problem.
Are the women who finished college, the women who
once had dreams beyond housewifery, the ones who suffer
the most? According to the experts they are, but listen to
these four women:
My days are all busy, and dull, too. All I ever do is
mess around. I get up at eight-I make breakfast, so I
do the dishes, have lunch, do some more dishes, and some
laundry and cleaning in the afternoon. Then it's supper
dishes and I get to sit down a few minutes, before the
children have to be sent to bed . . . . That's all there is
to my day. It's just like any other wife's day. Humdrum.
The biggest time, I am chasing kids.

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

23

Ye Gods, what do I do with my time? Well, I get up at
six. I get my son dressed and then give him breakfast.
After that I wash dishes and bathe and feed the baby.
Then I get lunch and while the children nap, I sew or
mend or iron and do all the other things I can't get done
before noon. Then I cook supper for the family and my
husband watches TV while I do the dishes. After I get
the children to bed, I set my hair and then I go to bed.
The problem is always being the children's mommy, or
the minister's wife and never being myself.
A film made of any typical morning in my house
would look like an old Marx Brothers' comedy. I wash
the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out
in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back
in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help
the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be w.ell-informed,
then scamper down to the washing machines where my
thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a
primitive village going for an entire year. By noon I'm
ready for a padded cell. Very little of what I've done
has been really necessary or important. Outside pressures
lash me through the day. Yet I look upon myself as one
of the more relaxed housewives in the neighborhood.
Many of my friends are even more frantic. In the past
sixty years we have come full circle and the American
housewife is once again trapped in a squirrel cage. If the
cage is now a modern plate-glass-and-broadloom ranch
house or a convenient modern apartment, the situation
is no less painful than when her grandmother sat over an
embroidery hoop in her gilt-and-plush parlor and muttered angrily about women's rights.
The first two women never went to college. They live in
developments in Levittown, New Jersey, and Tacoma,
Washington, and were interviewed by a team of sociologists
studying workingmen's wives. 2 The third, a minister's wife,
wrote on the fifteenth reunion questionnaire of her college that she never had any career ambitions, but wishes
now she had. s The fourth, who has a Ph.D. in anthropology, is today a Nebraska housewife with three children. 40

24

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Their words seem to indicate that housewives of all educational levels suffer the same feeling of desperation.
The fact is that no one today is muttering angrily about
"women's rights," even though more and more women have
gone to college. In a recent study of all the classes that have
graduated from Barnard College,5 a significant minority of
earlier graduates blamed their education for making them
want "rights," later classes blamed their education for giving them career dreams, but recent graduates blamed the
c.ollege for making them feel it was not enough simply to
be a housewife and mother; they did not want to feel guilty
if they did not read books or take part in community activities. But if education is not the cause of the problem, the
fact that education somehow festers in these women may
be a clue.
If the secret of feminine fulfillment is having children,
never have so many women, with the freedom to choose,
had so many children, in so few years, so wiJIingly. If the
answer is love, never have women searched for love with
such determination. And yet there is a growing suspicion
that the problem may not be sexual, though it must somehow be related to sex. I have heard from many doctors
evidence of new sexual problems between man and wifesexual hunger in wives so ~eat their husbands cannot satisfy it. "We have made women a sex creature," said a psychiatrist at the Margaret Sanger marriage counseling clinic.
"She has no identity except as a wife and mother. She does
not know who she is herself. She waits all day for her husband to come home at night to make her feel alive. And
now it is the husband who is not interested. It is terrible
for the women, to lie there, night after night, waiting for
her husband to make her feel alive." Wby is there such a
market for books and articles offering sexual advice? The
kind of sexual orgasm which Kinsey found in statistical
plenitude in the recent generations of American women
does not seem to make this problem go away.
On the contrary, new neuroses are being seen among
women-and problems as yet unnamed as neuroseswhich Freud and his followers did not predict, with physical symptoms, anxieties, and defense mechanisms equal to
those caused by sexual repression. And strange new problems are being reported in the growing generations of children whose mothers were always there, driving them
around, helping them with their homework-an inability to

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

25

endure pain or discipline or pursue any self-sustained goal
of any sort, a devastating boredom with life. Educators are
increasingly uneasy about the dependence, the lack of selfreliance, of the boys and girls who are entering coUege today. "We fight a continual battle to make our students assume manhood," said a Columbia dean.
A White House conference was held on the physical and
muscular deterioration of American children: were they
being over-nurtured? Sociologists noted the astounding organization of suburban children's lives: the lessons, parties,
entertainments, play and study groups organized for them.
A suburban housewife in Portland, Oregon, wondered why
the children "need" Brownies and Boy Scouts out here.
"This is not the slums. The kids out here have the great
outdoors. I think people are so bored, they organize the
children, and then try to hook everyone else on it. And the
poor kids have no time left just to lie on their beds and
daydream."
Can the problem that has no name be somehow related
to the domestic routine of the housewife? When a woman
tries to put the problem into words, she often merely describes the daily life she leads. What is there in this recital
of comfortable domestic detail that could possibly cause
such a feeling of desperation? Is she trapped simply by
the enormous demands of her role as modern housewife:
wife, mistress, mother, nurse, consumer, cook, chauffeur;
expert on interior decoration, child care, appliance repair,
furniture refinishing, nutrition, and education? Her day is
fragmented as she rushes from dishwasher to washing machine to telephone to dryer to station wagon to supermarket, and delivers Johnny to the Little League field, takes
Janey to dancing class, gets the lawnmower fixed and meets
the 6:45. She can never spend more than 15 minutes on
anyone thing; she has no time to read books, only magazines; even if she had time, she has lost the power to concentrate. At the end of the day, she is so terribly tired that
sometimes her husband has to take over and put the children to bed.
Thus terrible tiredness took so many women to doctors in
the 1950's that one decided to investigate it. He found,
surprisingly, that his patients suffering from "housewife's fatigue" slept more than an adult needed to sleep--as much
as ten hours a day-and that the actual energy they expended on housework did not tax their capacity. The real prob-

26

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

lem must be something else, he decided-perhaps boredom.
Some doctors told their women patients they must get out
of the house for a day, treat themselves to a movie in town.
Others prescribed tranquilizers. Many suburban hOl}sewives
were taking tranquilizers like cough drops. "You wake up
in the morning, and you feel as if there's no point in going
on another day like this. So you take a tranquilizer because
it makes you not care so much that it's pointless."
It is easy to see the concrete details that trap ..the suburban housewife, the continual demands on her time. But the
chains that bind her in her trap are chains in her own mind
and spirit. They are chains made up of mistaken ideas and
misinterpreted facts, of incomplete truths and unreal
choices. They are not easily seen and not easily shaken off.
How can any woman see the whole truth within the
bounds of her own life? How can she believe that voice inside herself, when it denies the conventional, accepted
truths by which she has been living? And yet the women I
have talked to, who are finally listening to that inner voice,
seem in some incredible way to be groping through to a
truth that has defied the experts.
I think the experts in a great many fields have been
holding pieces of that truth under their microscopes for a
long time without realizing it. I found pieces of it in certain
new research and theoretical developments in psychological, social and biological science whose implications for
women seem never to have been examined. I found many
clues by talking to suburban doctors, gynecologists, obstetricians, child-guidance clinicians, pediatricians, high-school
guidance counselors, college professors, marriage counselors, psychiatrists and ministers-questioning them not on
their theories, but on their actual experience in treating
American women. I became aware of a growing body of
evidence, much of which has not been reported publicly
because it does not fit current modes of thought about
women-evidence which throws into question the standards of feminine normality, feminine adjustment, feminine
fulfillment, and feminine maturity by which most women
are still trying to live.
I began to see in a strange new light the American return
to early marriage and the large families that are causing
the population explosion; the recent movement to natural
childbirth and breastfeeding; suburban conformity, and the
new neuroses, character pathologies and sexual problems

THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME

27

being reported by the doctors. I began to see new dimensions to old problems that have long been taken for granted
among women: menstrual difficulties, sexual frigidity, promiscuity, pregnancy fears, childbirth depression, the high
incidence of emotional breakdown and suicide among
women in their twenties and thirties, the menopause crises,
the so-called passivity and immaturity of American men,
the discrepancy between women's tested intellectual abilities in childhood and their adult achievement, the changing
incidence of adult sexual orgasm in American women, and
persistent problems in psychotherapy and in women's education.
If I am right, the problem that has no name stirring in
the minds of so many American women today is not a matter of loss of femininity or too much education, or the demands of domesticity. It is far more important than anyone recognizes. It is the key to these other new and old
problems which have been torturing women and their husbands and children, and puzzling their doctors and educators for years. It may well be the key to our future as a
nation and a culture. We can no longer ignore that voice
within women that says: "I want something more than my
husband and my children and my home."

TWO
THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE
WHY HAVE

so

MANY AMERICAN WIVES SUFFERED

this nameless aching dissatisfaction for so many years, each
one thinking she was alone? "I've got tears in my eyes with
sheer relief that my own inner turmoil is shared with other
women," a young Connecticut mother wrote me when I
first began to put this problem into words.' A woman from
a town in Ohio wrote: 'The times when I felt that the only
answer was to consult a psychiatrist, times of anger, bitterness and general frustration too numerous to even mention,
I had no idea that hundreds of other women were feeling
the same way. I felt so completely alone." A Houston,
Texas, housewife wrote: "It has been the feeling of being
almost alone with my problem that has made it so hard. I
thank God for my family, home and chance to care for
them, but my life couldn't stop there. It is an awakening to
know that I'm not an oddity and can stop being ashamed of
wanting something more."
That painful guilty silence, and that tremendous relief
when a feeling is finally out in the open, are familiar psychological signs. What need, what part of themselves, could
so many women today be repressing? In this age after
Freud, sex is immediately suspect. But this new stirring in
women does not seem to be sex; it is, in fact, much harder
for women to talk about than sex. Could there be another
need, a part of themselves they have buried as deeply as the
Victorian women buried sex?
If there is, a woman might not know what it was, any
more than the Victorian woman knew she had sexual
needs. The image of a good woman by which Victorian ladies lived simply left out sex. Does the image by which
modern American women live also leave something out,
the proud and public image of the high-school girl going
steady, the college girl in love, the suburban housewife with
an up-and-coming husband and a station wagon full of children? This image--created by the women's magazines, by

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

29

advertisements, television, movies, novels, columns and
books by experts on marriage and the family, child psychology, sexual adjustment and by the popularizers of sociology and psychoanalysis-shapes women's lives today and
mirrors their dreams. It may give a clue to the problem that
has no name, as a dream gives a clue to a wish unnamed
by the dreamer. In the mind's ear, a geiger counter clicks
when the image shows too sharp a discrepancy from reality. A geiger counter clicked in my own inner ear when I
could not fit the quiet desperation of so many women into
the picture of the modern American housewife that I myself was helping to create, writing for the women's magazines. What is missing from the image which shapes the
American woman's pursuit of fulfillment as a wife and
mother? What is missing from the image that mirrors and
creates the identity of women in America today?
In the early 1960's McCall's has been the fastest growing of the women's magazines. Its contents are a fairly accurate representation of the image of the American woman
presented, and in part created, by the large-circulation magazines. Here are the complete editorial contents of a typical issue of McCall's (July, 1960):
1. A lead article on "increasing baldness in women,"
caused by too much brushing and dyeing.
2. A long poem in primer-size type about a child,
called "A Boy Is A Boy."
3. A short story about how a teenager who doesn't go
to college gets a man away from a bright college girl.
4. A short story about the minute sensations of a baby
throwing his bottle out of the crib.
S. The first of a two-part intimate "up-to-date" account by the Duke of Windsor on "How the Duchess
and I now live and spend our time. The influence of
clothes on me and vice versa."
6. A short story about a nineteen-year-old girl sent to a
charm school to learn how to bat her eyelashes and
lose at tennis. ("You're nineteen, and by normal
American standards, I now am entitled to have you
taken off my hands, legally and financially, by some
beardless youth who will spirit you away to a oneand-a-half-room apartment in the Village while he
learns the chicanery of selling bonds. And no beard-

30

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

7.

8.
9.

10.
11.

12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

less youth is going to do that as long as you volley to
his backhand.")
The story of a honeymoon couple commuting between separate bedrooms after an argument over
gambling at Las Vegas.
An article on "how to overcome an inferiority complex."
A story called "Wedding Day."
The story of a teenager's mother who learns how to
dance rock-and-roll.
Six pages of glamorous pictures of models in maternity clothes.
.
Four glamorous pages on "reduce the way the models
do."
An article on airline delays.
Patterns for home sewing.
Patterns with which to make "Folding Screens-Bewitching Magic."
An article called "An Encyclopedic Approach to
Finding a Second Husband."
A "barbecue bonanza," dedicated "to the Great
American Mister who stands, chef's cap on head,
fork in hand, on terrace or back porch, in patio or
backyard anywhere in the land, watching his roast
turning on the spit. And to his wife, without whom
(sometimes) the barbecue could never be the
smashing summer success it undoubtedly is . . ."

There were also the regular front-of-the-book "service"
columns on new drug and medicine developments, childcare facts, columns by Clare Luce and by Eleanor Roosevelt, and "Pots and Pans," a column of readers' letters.
,.. The image of woman that emerges from this big, pretty
'n\agazine is young and frivolous, almost childlike; fluffy and
feminine; passive; gaily content in a world of bedroom and
kitchen, sex, babies, and home. The magazine surely does
not leave out sex; the only passion, the only pursuit, the
only goal a woman is permitted is the pursuit of a r@ It
is crammed full of food, clothing, cosmetics, furniture, and
the physical bodies of young women, but where is the wor
of thought and ideas, the life of the mind
spirit? In the
1hagazme Image, women do no work except housework and
work to keep their bodies beautiful and to get and keep a
man.

ana

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

31

This was the image of the American woman in the year
Castro led a revolution in Cuba and men were trained to
travel into outer space; the year that the African continent
brought forth new nations, and a plane whose speed is
greater than the speed of sound broke up a Summit Conference; the year artists picketed a great museum in protest
against the hegemony of abstract art; physicists explored the
concept of anti-matter; astronomers, because of new radio
telescopes, had to alter their concepts of the expanding universe; biologists made a breakthrough in the fundamental
chemistry of life; and Negro youth in Southern schools
forced the United States, for the first time since the Civil
War, to face a moment of democratic truth. But ,this magazine, published for over 5,000,000 American women, almost all of whom have been through hIgh school and nearly
half to coliege, contaIned almost no menfIon of the world
beyond the home. In the second half of the twentieth century in America, woman's world was confined to her own
body and beauty, the charming of man, the bearing of babies, and the physical care and serving of husband, children, and home. And this was no anomaly of a single issue
of a single women's magazine.
I sat one night at a meeting of magazine writers, mostly
men, who work for all kinds of magazines, induding women's magazines. The main speaker was a leader of the desegregation battle. Before he spoke, another man outlined
the needs of the large women's magazine he edited:
Our readers are housewives, full time. They're not interested in the broad public issues of the day. They are
not interested in national or international affairs. They
are only interested in the family and the home. They
aren't interested in politics, unless it's related to an immediate need in the home, like the price of coffee. Humor? Has to be gentle, they don't get satire. Travel? We
have almost completely dropped it. Education? That's a
problem. Their own education level is going up. They've
generally all had a high-school education and many, college. They're tremendously interested in education for
their children-fourth-grade arithmetic. You just can't
write about ideas or broad issues of the day for women.
That's
'ublishing 90 per cent service now and
o per cent general interes .

32

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Another editor agreed, adding plaintively: "Can't you give
us something else besides 'there's death in your medicine
cabinet'? Can't any of you dream up a new crisis for women? We're always interested in sex, of course."
At this point, the writers and editors spent an hour listening to Thurgood Marshall on the inside story of the desegregation battle, and its possible effect on the presidential
election. "TQO bad I can't run that story." one editor said.
"'But you jUst can't link it 1o.-w~ world:> r As I listened to tbem, a German phrase echoed in my
mind- "Kinder, Kuehe, Kirehe," the slogan by which the
Nazis decreed that women must once again be confined to
their biological role. But this was not Nazi Germany. This
was America. The whole world lies open to American
women. Why, then, does the image deny the world? Why
does it limit women to "one passion, one role, one occupation?" Not long ago, women dreamed and fought for equality, their own place in the world. What happened to their
dreams; when did women decide to give up the world and
go back home?
A geologist brings up a core of mud from the bottom of
the ocean and sees layers of sediment as sharp as a razor
blade deposited over the years-clues to changes in the
geological evolution of the earth so vast that they would go
unnoticed during the lifespan of a single man. I sat for
many days in the New York Public Library, going back
through bound volumes of American women's magazines
for the last twenty years. I found a change in the image of
the American woman, and in the boundaries of the woman's world, as sharp and puzzling as the changes revealed in
cores of ocean sediment.
In 1939, the heroines of women's magazine stories were
wavs voUfilLbut hi a certain seIiSe ntev weI~
,than their fictional counterpaitSlOOaY. They were young
in the same way ibat me AIriencan hero has always been
y~ung: th~ere New W~ing v,~th a gay. d~
mmed spmt a new ideQil
en-a hfe of theIr own.
There was an aura about them of becoming, of moving into
a future that was going to be different from the past. .ll!Lmajority of her . es i
e four major women's magazines
(t en La les' Home Journal, Me a s, Good Housekeepmg,
Woman's Home Companion) were career women-happily, proudly, adventurously, amactively career-Women-

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

33

who loved and were loved by men. And the spirit, courage,
independence, determination-the strength of character
they showed in their work as nurses, teachers, artists,
actresses, copywriters, saleswomen-were part of their
charm. ~ a de6eite ayra that their individna!jty
was something to be admired, not unattractive to men, that
men were (frawn w them as much for their spirit and character as for their looks.
These were the mass women's magazines-in their heyday. The stories were conventional: girl-meets-boy or girlgets-boy. But very often this was not the major theme of
the story. These heroines were usually marching toward
some goal or ViSion of their own, struggling WIth some problem of w~! ortlie j£9rlcL when they found their man. And
tii'iSNew Woman, less
feminine, so independent and
determined to find a new Ii e of her own, was the heroine
of a different kind of love story. She was less aggressive in
pursuit of a man. Her passionate involvement with the
world. her own sense of herself as an individual, her selfreliance, gave a different flavor to her relationship with the
man. The heroine and hero of one of these stories meet
and fall in love at an ad agency where they both work. "I
don't want to put you in a garden behind a wall," the hero
says. "I want you to walk with me hand in hand, and together we could accomplish whatever we wanted to" ("A
Dream to Share," Redbook, January, 1939).
These New Women were almost never housewives; in
fact, the stories usually ended before theynad children.
They were young because the future was open. But they
seemed, in another sense, much older, more mature than
the childlike, kittenish
housewife herO!
toda .
One, 0
amp e, is a nurse
ot er-lD-Law," Ladies'
Home !ouTTUll, June, 1939). "She was, he thought, very
lovely. She hadn't an ounce of picture book prettiness, but
there was strength in her hands, pride in her carriage and
nobility in the lift of her chin, in her blue eyes. She had
been on her own ever since she left training, nine years
ago. She had earned her way, she need consider nothing but
her heart."
One heroine runs away from home when her mother insists she must make her debut instead of going on an expedition as a geologist. Her passionate determination to live
her own life does not keep this New Woman from loving a
man, but it makes her rebel from her parents; just as the

fiuffill

34

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

young hero often must leave home to grow up. "You've got
more courage than any girl I ever saw. You have what it
takes," says the boy who helps her get away ("Have a
Good Time, Dear," Ladies' Home Journal, May 1939).
Often, there was a conflict between some commitment
to her work and the man. 11ill the IllQral. in 1939, was that
if sh
commitment
herself, she did not lose lEe
'm
. A young widow ( etweeff
the Dark and the Daylight," Ladies' Home Journal, February, 1939) sits in her office, debating whether to stay and
correct the important mistake she has made on the job, or
keep her date with a man. She thinks back on her marriage,
her baby, her husband's death . . . "the time afterward
which held the struggle for clear jUdgment, ~ot being afraid
of new and better jobs, of having confidence in one's decisions." How can the boss expect her to give up her date!
But she stays on the job. "They'd put their life's blood into
this campaign. She couldn't let him down." She finds her
man, too--the boss!
These stories may not have been great literature. But the
identity of their heroines seemed to say something about the
housewives who, then as now, read the women's magazines.
. ese magazines were not written for career women. The
New
.
rhousewives; they reflected the dreams, mirrored the yearning or
identity and the sense of possibility that existed for women
then. And if women could not have these dreams for themselves, they wanted their daughters to have them. They
wanted their daughters to be more than housewives, to go
out in the world that had been denied them.
It is like remembering a long-forgotten dream, to recapture the memory of what a career meant to women before
"career woman" became a dirty word in America. Jobs
meant money, of course, at the end of the depression. But
the readers of these magazines were not the women who
got the jobs; career meant more than job. It seemed to
mean doing something, being somebody yourself, not just
existing in and through others.
I found the last clear note of the passionate search for
individual identity that a career seems to have symbolized
in the pre-1950 decades in a story called "Sarah and the Sea-plane" Ladies' Home Journal, February, 1949). Sarah,
who for nineteen years has played the part of docile daughter, is secretly learning to fly. She misses her flying lesson to

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

35

accompany her mother on a round of social calls. An elderly doctor houseguest says: "My dear Sarah, every day,
all the time, you are committing suicide. It's a greater crime
than not pleasing others, not doing justice to yourself."
Sensing some secret, he asks if she is in love. "She found it
difficult to answer. In love? In love with the good-natured,
the beautiful Henry [the flying teacher]? In love with the
flashing water and the lift of wings at the instant of freedom, and the vision of the smiling, limitless world? 'Yes,'
she answered, 'I think I am.'''
The next morning, Sarah solos. Henry "stepped away,
slamming the cabin door shut, and swung the ship about for
her. She was alone. There was a heady moment when everything she had learned left her, when she had to adjust
herself to be alone, entirely alone in the familiar cabin.
Then she drew a deep breath and suddenly a wonderful
sense of competence made her sit erect and smiling. She
was alone! She was answerable to' herself alone, and she
was sufficient.
"'I can do it!' she told herself aloud. . . . The wind
blew back from the floats in glittering streaks, and then effortlessly the ship lifted itself free and soared." Even her
mother can't stop her now from getting her flying license.
She is not "afraid of discovering my own way of life." In
bed that night she smiles sleepily, remembering how Henry
had said, "You're my girl."
.
"Henry's girl! She smiled. No, she was not Henry's girl.
She was Sarah. And that was sufficient. And with such a late
start it would be some time before she got to know herself.
Half in a dream now, she wondered if at the end of that
time she would need someone else and who it would be."
And then suddenly the image blurs. The New Woman,
soaring free, hesitates in midflight, shivers in all that blue
sunlight and rushes back to the cozy walls of home. In the
same year that Sarah soloed, the Ladies' Home Journal
printed the prototype of the innumerable paeans to "Occupation: Housewife" that started to appear in the women's
magazines, paeans that resounded throughout the fifties.
They usually begin with a woman complaining that when
she has to write "housewife" on the census blank, she gets
an inferiority complex. ("When I write it I realize that
here I am, a middle-aged woman, with a university education, and I've never made anything out of my life. I'm just

it,

36

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

a housewife."} Then the author of the paean, who somehow never is a housewife (in this case, Dorothy Thompson,
newspaper woman, foreign correspondent, famous columnist, in Ladies' Home Journal, March, 1949), roars with
laughter. The trouble with you, she scolds, is you don't
realize you are expert in a dozen careers, simultaneously.
"You might write: business manager, cook, nurse, chauffeur, dressmaker, interior decorator, accountant, caterer,
teacher, private secretary-or just put down philanthropist.
. . . All your life you have been giving away your energies,
your skills, your talents, your services, for love." But still,
the housewife complains, I'm nearly fifty and I've never
done what I hoped to do in my youth-music-I've wasted
JllY college education.
Ho-ho, laughs Miss Thompson, aren't your children musical because of you, and all those struggling years while
your husband was finishing his great work, didn't you keep
a charming home on $3,000 a year, and make all your children's clothes and your own, and paper the living room
yourself, and watch the markets like a hawk for bargains?
And in time off, didn't you type and proofread your husband's manuscripts, plan festivals to make up the church
deficit, play piano duets with the children to make practicing more fun, read their books in high school to follow
their study? "But all this vicarious living-through others,"
the housewife sighs. "As vicarious as Napoleon Bonaparte,"
Miss Thompson scoffs, "or a Queen. I simply refuse to
share your self-pity. You are one of the most successful
women I know."
As for not earning any money, the argument goes, let the
housewife compute the cost of her services. Women can
save more money by their managerial talents inside the
home than they can bring into it by outside work. As for
woman's spirit being broken by the boredom of household
tasks, maybe the genius of some women has been thwarted,
but "a world full of feminine genius, but poor in children,
would come rapidly to an end. . . . Great men have great
mothers."
And the American housewife is reminded that Catholic
countries in the Middle Ages "elevated the gentle and inconspicuous Mary into the Queen of Heaven, and built their
loveliest cathedrals to 'Notre Dame-Our Lady.' . . . The
homemaker, the nurturer, the creator of children's environment is the constant recreator of culture, civilization, and

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

37

virtue. Assuming that she is doing well that great managerial
task and creative activity, let her write her occupation
proudly: 'housewife.'''
In 1949, the Ladies' Home Journal also ran Margaret
Mead's Male and Female. All the magazines were echoing
Farnham and Lundberg's Modern Woman: The Lost Sex,
which came out in 1942, with its warning that careers and
higher education were leading to the "masculinization of
women with enormously dangerous consequences to the
home, the children dependent on it and to the ability of
the woman, as well as her husband, to obtain sexual gratification."
And so the feminine mystique began to spread through
the land, grafted onto old prejudices and comfortable conventions which so easily give the past a stranglehold on the
future. Behind the new mystique were concepts and theories deceptive in their sophistication and their assumption
of accepted truth. These theories were supposedly so complex that they were inaccessible to all but a few initiates,
and therefore irrefutable. It will be necessary to break
through this wall of mystery and look more closely at these
complex concepts, these accepted truths, to understand
fully what has happened to American women.
The feminine mystique says that the highest value and
the only commitment for women is the fulfillment of their
own femininity. It says that the great mistake of Western
culture, through most of its history, has been the undervaluation of this femininity. It says this femininity is so mysterious and intuitive and close to the creation and origin of
life that man-made science may never be able to understand it. But however special and different, it is in no way
inferior to the nature of man; it may even in certain respects be superior. The mistake, says the mystique, the root
of women's troubles in the past is that women envied men,
women tried to be like men, instead of accepting their own
nature, which can find fulfillment only in sexual passivity,
male domination, and nurturing maternal love.
But the new image this mystique gives to American women is the old image: "Occupation: housewife." The new
mystique makes the housewife-mothers, who never had a
chance to be anything else, the model for all women; it
presupposes that history has reached a final and glorious
end in the here and now, as far as wom"n are concerned.
Beneath the sophisticated trappings, it simply makes cer-

38

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

tain concrete, finite, domestic aspects of feminine existence
-as it was lived by women whose lives were confined, by
necessity, to cooking, cleaning, washing, bearing childreninto a religion, a pattern by which all women must now
live or deny their femininity.
llment as a woman lfad only one definition for
erican women afu:r 1949=ille_ housewife-motlier.
swiftly as m a dream, the image of the Amencan-wommr- as
a changing, growing individual in a changing world was shattered. Her solo flight to find her own identity was forgotten
in the rush for the security of togetherness. Her limitless
world shrunk to the cozy walls of home.
The transformation, reflected in the pages of the women's magazines, was sharply visible in 1949 and progressive
through the fifties. "Femininity Begins at Home," "It's a
Man's World Maybe," "Have Babies While You're Young,"
"How to Snare a Male," "Should I Stop Work When We
Marry?" "Are You Training Your Daughter to be a Wife?"
"Careers at Home," "Do Women Have to Talk So Much?"
"Why GI's Prefer Those German Girls," "What Women
Can Learn from Mother Eve," "Really a Man's World ,
Politics," "How to Hold On to a Happy Marriage," "Don't
Be Afraid to Marry Young," "The Doctor Talks about
Breast-Feeding," "Our Baby was Born at Home," "Cooking
to Me is Poetry," "The Business of Running a Home."
By the' end of 1949, only one out of three heroines in
the women's magazines was a career woman-and she was
shown in the act of renouncing her career and discovering
that what she really wanted to be was a housewife. In 1958,
and again in 1959, I went through issue after issue of the
~ women's magaiirrcs""Tihe fourth,--Woman's
Home Companion, haOtlied) wichoot finding a single hex::..
cine who had a career, a commitment to any work, art,
-profession, or IDlsslOlT'in the world, other than "Occupation: housewife." Only one in a hundred heroines had a
job; even the young unmarried heroines no longer worked
except at snaring a husband. 2
These new happy housewife heroines seem strangely
younger than the spirited career girls of the thirties and
forties. They seem to get younger all the time-in looks,
and a childlike kind of dependence. They have no vision of
the future, except to have a baby. The only active growing figure in their world is the child. The housewife heroines are forever young, because their own image ends in

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

39

childbirth. Like Peter Pan, they must remain young, while
their children grow up with the world. T~y must keep on
having babies, because the feminine mystIque says there is
otner wa for a woman to be a heroIne. Here IS a typl- •
cal specimen from a s ory ca e
e andwich Maker"
(Ladies' Home Journal, April, 1959). She took home economics in college, learned how to cook, never held a job,
and still plays the child bride, though she now has three
children of her own. Her problem is money. "Oh, nothing
boring, like taxes or reciprocal trade agreements, or foreign
aid programs. I leave all that economic jazz to my constitutionally elected representative in Washington, heaven
help him."
The problem is her $42.10 allowance. She hates having to ask her husband for money every time she needs
a pair of shoes, but he won't trust her with a charge account. "Oh, how I yearned for a little money of my own!
Not much, really. A few hundred a year would have done
it. Just enough to meet a friend for lunch occasionally, to
indulge in extravagantly colored stockings, a few small
items, without having to appeal to Charley. But, alas,
Charley was right. I had never earned a dollar in my life,
and had no idea of how money was made. So all I did for a
long time was brood, as I continued with my cooking,
cleaning, cooking, washing, ironing, cooking."
At last the solution comes-she will take orders for
sandwiches from other men at her husband's plant. She
earns $52.50 a week, except that she forgets to count costs,
and she doesn't remember what a gross is so she has to
hide 8,640 sandwich bags behind the furnace. Charley says
she's making the sandwiches too fancy. She explains: "If
it's only ham on rye, then I'm just a sandwich maker, and
I'm not interested. But the extras, the special touches-well, they make it sort of creative." So she chops, wraps,
peels, seals, spreads bread, starting at dawn and never finished, for $9.00 net, until she is disgusted by the smell of
food, and finally staggers downstairs after a sleepless night
to slice a salami for the eight gaping lunch boxes. "It was
too much. Charley came down just then, and after one
quick look at me, ran for a glass of water." She realizes
that she is going to have another baby.
"Charley's first coherent words were 'I'll cancel your
lunch orders. You're a mother. That's your job. You don't
have to earn money, too.' It was all so beautifully simple!

.no

L

40

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

'Yes, boss,' I murmured obediently, frankly relieved." That
night he brings her home a checkbook; he will trust her
with a joint account. So she decides just to keep quiet about
tIfe 8,640 sandwich bags. Anyhow, she'll have used them
up, making sandwiches for four children to take to school,
by the time the youngest is ready for college.
The road from Sarah and the seaplane to the sandwich
maker was traveled in only ten years. In those ten years,
the image of American woman seems to have suffered a
schizophrenic split. And the split in the image goes much
further than the savage obliteration of career from women's dreams.
In an earlier time, the image of woman was also split in
two--the good, pure woman on the pedestal, and the whore
of the desires of the flesh. The split in the new image opens
a different fissure-the feminine woman, whose goodness
includes the desires of the flesh, and the career woman,
whose evil includes every desire of the separate self. The
new feminine morality story is the exorcising of the forbidden career dream, the heroine's victory over Mephistopheles: the devil, first in the form of a career woman, who
threatens to take away the heroine's husband or child, and
finally, the devil inside the heroine herself, the dream of
independence, the discontent of spirit, and even the feeling
of a separate identity that must be exorcised to win or
keep the love of husband and child.
In a story in Redbook ("A Man Who Acted Like a Husband," November, 1957) the child-bride heroine, "a little
freckle-faced brunette" whose nickname is "Junior," is
visited by her old college roommate. The roommate Kay is
"a man's girl, really, with a good head for business . . .
she wore her polished mahogany hair in a high chignon,
speared with two chopstick affairs." Kay is not only divorced, but she has also left her child with his grandmother
while she works in television. This career-woman-devil
tempts Junior with the lure of a job to keep her from
breast-feeding her baby. She even restrains the young mother from going to her baby when he cries at 2 A.M. But she
gets her comeuppance when George, the husband, discovers
the crying baby uncovered, in a freezing wind from an open
window, with blood running down its cheek. Kay, reformed
and repentant, plays hookey from her job to go get her own
child and start life anew. And Junior, gloating at the 2 A.M.

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

41

feeding-"I'm glad, glad, glad I'm just a housewife" starts
to dream about the baby, growing up to be a housewife,
too.
With the career woman out of the way, the housewife
with interests in the community becomes the devil to be
exorcised. Even PTA takes on a suspect connotation, not
to mention interest in some international cause (see "Almost a Love Affair," McCall's, November, 1955). The
housewife who simply has a mind of her own is the next to
go. The heroine of "I Didn't Want to Tell You" (McCall's,
January, 1958) is shown balancing the checkbook by herself and arguing with her husband about a small domestic
detail. It develops that she is losing her husband to a "helpless little widow" whose main appeal is that she can't "think
straight" about an insurance policy or mortgage. The betrayed wife says: "She must have sex appeal and what
weapon has a wife against that?" But her best friend tells
her: "You're making this too simple. You're forgetting how
helpless Tania can be, and how grateful to the man who
helps her . . ."
"I couldn't be a clinging vine if I tried," the wife says. "I
had a better than average job after I left college and I was
always a pretty independent person. I'm not a helpless little
woman and I can't pretend to be." But she learns, that
night. She hears a noise that might be a burglar; even though
she knows it's only a mouse, she calls helplessly to her husband, and wins him back. As he comforts her pretended
panic, she murmurs that, of course, he was right in their
argument that morning. "She lay still in the soft bed, smiling sweet, secret satisfaction, scarcely touched with guilt."
The end of the road, in an almost literal sense, is the
disappearance of the heroine altogether, as a separate self
and the subject of her own story. The end of the road is
togetherness, where the woman has no independent self to
hide even in guilt; she exists only for and through her husband and children.
Coined by the publishers of McCall's in 1954, the concept
"togetherness" was seized upon avidly as a movement of
spiri1ual significance by advertisers, ministers, newspaper
editors. For a time, it was elevated into virtually a national purpose. But very quickly there was sharp social criticism, and bitter jokes about "togetherness" as a substitute
for larger human goals-for men. Women were taken to
task for making their husbands do housework, instead of

42

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

letting them pioneer in the nation and the world. Why, it
was asked, should men with the capacities of statesmen, anthropologists, physicists, poets, have to wash dishes and diaper babies on weekday evenings or Saturday mornings
when they might use those extra hours to fulfill larger commitments to their society?
Significantly, critics resented only that men were being
asked to share "woman's world." Few questioned the
boundaries of this world for women. No one seemed to
remember that women were once thought to have the capacity and vision of statesmen, poets, and physicists. Few
saw the big lie of togetherness for women.
Consider the Easter 1954 issue of McCall's which announced the new era of togetherness, sounding the requiem
for the days when women fought for and won political
equality, and the women's magazines "helped you to carve
out large areas of living formerly forbidden to your sex."
The new way of life in which "men and women in everincreasing numbers are marrying at an earlier age, having
children at an earlier age, rearing larger families and gaining their deepest satisfaction" from their own homes, is one
which "men, women and children are achieving together
•.. not as women alone, or men alone, isolated -from one
another, but as a family, sharing a common experience."
The picture essay detailing that way of life is called "a
man's place is in the home." It describes, as the new image
and ideal, a New Jersey couple with three children in a
gray-shingle split-level house. Ed and Carol have "centered
their lives almost completely arollnd their children and
their home." They are shown shopping at the supermarket,
carpentering, dressing the children, making breakfast together. "Then Ed joins the members of his car pool and heads
for the office."
Ed, the husband, chooses the color scheme for the house
and makes thi major decorating decisions. The chores Ed
likes are listed: putter around the hOllse, make things, paint,
select furniture, rugs and draperies, dry dishes, read to the
children and put them to bed, work in the garden, feed and
dress and bathe the children, attend PTA meetings, cook,
buy clothes for his wife, buy groceries.
Ed doesn't like these chores: dusting, vacullming, finishing johs he's started, hanging draperies, washing pots and
pans and dishes, picking up after the children, shoveling

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

43

snow or mowing the lawn, changing diapers, taking the
baby-sitter home, doing the laundry, ironing. Ed, of course,
does not do these chores.
For the sake of every member of the family, the family needs a head. This means Father, not Mother . . . .
Children of both sexes need to learn, recognize and respect the abilities and functions of each sex. . . . He is
not just a substitute mother, even though he's ready and
willing to do his share of bathing, feeding, comforting,
playing. He is a link with the outside world he works in.
If in that world he is interested, courageous, tolerant,
constructive, he will pass on these values to his children.
There were many agonized editorial sessions, in those
days at McCall's. "Suddenly, everybody was looking for
this spiritual significance in togetherness, expecting us to
make some mysterious religious movement out of the life
everyone had been leading for the last five years-crawling into the home, turning their backs on the world-but
we never could find a way of showing it that wasn't a monstrosity of dullness," a former McCall's editor reminisces.
"It always boiled down to, goody, goody, goody, Daddy is
out there in the garden barbecuing. We put men in the fashion pictures and the food pictures, and even the perfume
pictures. But we were stifled by it editorially.
"We had articles by psychiatrists that we couldn't use
because they would have blown it wide open: all those
couples propping their whole weight on their kids. But what
else could you do with togetherness but child care? We
were pathetically grateful to find anything else where we
could show father photographed with mother. Sometimes,
we used to wonder what would happen to women, with
men taking over the decorating, child care, cooking, all the
things that used to be hers alone. But we couldn't show
women getting out of the home and having a career. The
irony is, what we meant to do was to stop editing for women as women, and edit for the men and women together.
We wanted to edit for people, not women."
But forbidden to join man in the world, can women be
people? Forbidden independence, they finally are swallowed in an image of such passive dependence that they
want men to make the decisions, even in the home. The
frantic illusion that togetherness can impart a spiritual con-

44

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

tent to the dullness of domestic routine, the need for a
religious movement to make up for the lack of identity,
betrays the measure of women's loss and the emptiness of
the image. Could making men share the housework compensate women for their loss of the world? Could vacuuming the living-room floor together give the housewife some
mysterious new purpose in life?
In 1956, at the peak of togetherness, the bored editors
of McCall's ran a little article called "The Mother Who
Ran Away." To their amazement, it brought the highest
readership of any article they had ever run. "It was our
moment of truth," said a former editor. "We suddenly realized that all those women at home with their three and a
haIf children were miserably unhappy."
But by then the new image of American woman, "Occupation: housewife," had hardened into a mystique, unquestioned and permitting no questions, shaping the very reality
it distorted.
By the time I started writing for women's magazines, in
the fifties, it was simply taken for granted by editors, and
accepted as an immutable fact of life by writers, that women were not interested in politics, life outside the United
States, national issues, art, science, ideas, adventure, education, or even their own communities, except where they
could be sold through their emotions as wives and mothers.
Politics, for women, became Mamie's clothes and the
Nixons' home life. Out of conscience, a sense of duty, the
Ladies' Home Journal might run a series like "Political Pilgrim's Progress," showing women trying to improve their
children's schools and playgrounds. But even approaching
politics through mother love did not really interest women,
it was thought in the trade. Everyone knew those readership
percentages. An editor of Redbook ingeniously tried to
bring the bomb down to the feminine level by showing the
emotions of a wife whose husband sailed into a contaminated area.
"Women can't take an idea, an issue, pure," men who
edited the mass women's magazines agreed. "It has to be
translated in terms they can understand as women." This
was so well understood by those who wrote for women's
magazines that a natural childbirth expert submitted an article to a leading woman's magazine called "How to Have a
Baby in an Atom Bomb Shelter." "The article was not well
written," an editor told me, "or we might have bought it."

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

45

According to the mystique, women, in their mysterious femininity, might be interested in the concrete biological details
of having a baby in a bomb shelter, but never in t he abstract idea of the bomb's power to destroy the human race.
Such a belief, of course, becomes a self-fulfil1ing prophecy. In 1960, a perceptive social psychologist showed me
some sad statistics which seemed to prove unmistakably
that American women under thirty-five are not interested
in politics. "They may have the vote, but they don't dream
about running for office." he told me. "If you write a political piece, they won't read it. You have to translate it into
issues they can understand-romance, pregnancy, nursing,
home furnishings, clothes. Run an article on the economy,
or the race question, civil rights, and you'd think that women had never heard of them."
Maybe they hadn't heard of them. Ideas are not like instincts of the blood that spring into the mind intact. They
are communicated by education, by the printed word. The
new young housewives, who leave high school or college to
marry, do not read books, the psychological surveys say.
They only read magazines. Magazines today assume women
are not interested in ideas. But going back to the bound
volumes in the library, I found in the thirties and forties
that the mass-circulation magazines like Ladies' Home
Journal carried hundreds of articles about the world outside the home. "The first inside story of American diplomatic relations preceding declared war"; "Can the U.S.
Have Peace After This War?" by Walter Lippman; "Stalin
at Midnight," by Harold Stassen; "General Stilwel1 Reports
on China"; articles about the last days of Czechoslovakia
by Vincent Sheean; the persecution of Jews in Germany;
the New Deal; Carl Sandburg's account of Lincoln's assassination; Faulkner's stories of Mississippi, and Margaret Sanger's battle for birth control.
In the 1950's they printed virtually no articles except
those that serviced women as housewives, or described
women as housewives, or permitted a purely feminine identification like the Duchess of Windsor or Princess Margaret. "If we get an article about a woman who does anything adventurous, out of the way, something by herself,
you know, we figure she must be terribly aggressive, neurotic," a Ladies' Home Journal editor told me. Margaret
Sanger would never get in today.
In 1960, I saw statistics that showed that women under

46

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

thirty-five could not identify with a spirited heroine of a
story who worked in an ad agency and persuaded the boy
to stay and fight for his principles in the big city instead of
running home to the security of a family business. Nor
could these new young housewives identify with a young
minister, acting on his belief in defiance of convention. But
they had no trouble at all identifying with a young man
paralyzed at eighteen. ("I regained consciousness to discover that I could not move or even speak. I could wiggle only
one finger of one hand." With help from faith and a psychiatrist, "I am now finding reasons to live as fully as possible.")
Does it say something about the new housewife readers
that, as any editor can testify, they can identify completely
with the victims of blindness, deafness, physical maiming,
cerebral palsy, paralysis, cancer, or approaching death?
Such articles about people who cannot see or speak or
move have been an enduring staple of the women's magazines in the era of "Occupation: housewife." They are told
with infinitely realistic detail over and over again, replacing
the articles about the nation, the world, ideas, issues, art
and science; replacing the stories about adventurous spirited
women. And whether the victim is man, woman or child,
whether the living death is incurable cancer or creeping
paralysis, the housewife reader can identify.
Writing for these magazines, I was continually reminded
by editors "that women have to identify." Once I wanted to
write an article about an artist. So I wrote about her cooking and marketing and falling in love with her husband, and
painting a crib for her baby. I had to leave out the hours
she spent painting pictures, her serious work'-and the way
she felt about it. You could sometimes get away with writing about a woman who was not really a housewife, if you
made her sound like a housewife, if you left out her commitment to the world outside the home, or the private vision of mind or spirit that she pursued. In February, 1949,
the Ladies' Home Journal ran a feature, "Poet's Kitchen,"
showing Edna St. Vincent Millay cooking. "Now I expect to
hear no more about housework's being beneath anyone, for
if one of the greatest poets of our day, and any day, can
find beauty in simple household tasks, this is the end of the
old controversy."
Tbe one "career woman" who was always welcome in
the pages of the women's magazines was the actress. But

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

47

her image also underwent a remarkable change: from a
complex individual of fiery temper, inner depth, and a
mysterious blend of spirit and sexuality, to a sexual object,
a babyface bride, or a housewife. Think of Greta Garbo,
for instance, and Marlene Dietrich, Bette Davis, Rosalind
Russell, Katherine Hepburn. Then think of Marilyn Monroe, Debbie Reynolds, Brigitte Bardot, and "I Love Lucy."
When you wrote about an actress for a woman's magazine, you wrote about her as a housewife. You never
showed her doing or enjoying her work as an actress, unless
she eventually paid for it by losing her husband or her child,
or otherwise admitting failure as a woman. A Redbook
profile of Judy Holliday (June, 1957) described how "a
brilliant woman begins to find in her work the joy she never found in life." On screen, we are told, she plays "with
warmth and conviction the part of a mature, intelligent
wife and expectant mother, a role unlike anything she had
previously attempted." She must find fulfillment in her
career because she is divorced from her husband, has
"strong feelings of inadequacy as a woman. . . . It is a
frustrating irony of Judy's life, that as an actress she has
succeeded almost without trying, although, as a woman, she
has failed . . ."
Strangely enough, as the feminine mystique spread, denying women careers or any commitment outside the home,
the proportion of American women working ; outside the
home increased to one out of three. True, two out of three
were still housewives, but why, at the moment when the
doors of the world were finally open to all women, ~ould
the mystique deny the very dreams that had stirred women for a ,century?
I found a clue one morning, sitting in the office of a
women's magazine editor-a woman who, older than I, remembers the days when the old image was being created,
and who bad watched it being displaced. The old image of
the spirited career girl was largely created by writers and
editors who were women, she told me. The new image of
woman as housewife-mother has been largely created by
writers and editors who are men.
"Most of the material used to come from women writers," she said, almost nostalgically. "As the young men returned from the war, a great many women writers dropped
out of the field. The young women started having a lot of
children, and stopped writing. The new writers were all

48

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

men, back from the war, who had been dreaming about
home, and a cozy domestic life." One by one, the creators
of the gay "career girl" heroines of the thirties began to retire. By the end of the forties, the writers who couldn't get
the knack of writing in the new housewife image had left
the women's magazine field. The new magazine pros were
men, and a few women who could write comfortably according to the housewife formula. Other people began to
assemble backstage at the women's magazines: there was a
new kind of woman writer who lived in the housewife
image, or pretended to; and there was a new kind of woman's editor or publisher, less interested in ideas to reach
women's minds and hearts, than in selling them the things
that interest advertisers-appliances, detergents, lipstick.
Today, the deciding voice on most of these magazines is cast
by men: Women often carry out the formulas, women edit
the housewife "service" departments, but the formulas
themselves, which have dictated the new housewife image,
are the product of men's minds.
Also during the forties and fifties, serious fiction writers
of either sex disappeared from the mass-circulation women's magazines. In;:;, fiction of any ~~'~~ was almost
~tely re~lace b; a different ~f:i~
~~~ the old ar lide about ISSUes or
J
n
s '6~. Sometimes these articles lavished the artistry
of a poet and the honesty of a crusading reporter on baking
chiffon pies, or buying washing machines, or the miracles
paint can do for a living room, or diets, drugs, clothes, and
cosmetics to make the body into a vision of physical
beauty. Sometimes they dealt with very sophisticated ideas:
new developments in psychiatry, child psychology, sex and
marriage, medicine. It was assumed that women readers
could take these ideas, which appealed to their needs as
wives and mothers, but only if they were boiled down to
concrete physical details, spelled out in terms of the daily
life of an average housewife with concrete do's and don'ts.
How to keep your husband happy; how to solve your
child's bedwetting; how to keep death out of your medicine
cabinet . ••
But here is a curious thing. Within their narrow range,
these women's magazine articles, whether straight service to
the housewife or a documentary report about the housewife, were almost always superior in quality to women's
magazine fiction. They were better written, more honest,

:;

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

49

more sophisticated. This observation was made over and
over again by intelligent readers and puzzled editors, and by
writers themselves. "The serious fiction writers have become too internal. They're inaccessible to our readers, so
we're left with the formula writers," an editor of Redbook
said. And yet in the old days, serious writers like Nancy
Hale even William Faulkner, wrote for the women's rna a.
erhaps the
zines and were no conSl er
new Image 0 woman did not permit the internal honesty,
the depth of perception, and the human truth essential to
good fiction.
At the very least, fiction requires a hero or, understandably for women's magazines, a heroine, who is an "I" in
pursuit of some human goal or dream. There is a limit to
the number of stories that can be written about a girl in
pursuit of a boy, or a housewife in pursuit of a ball of dust
under the sofa. Thus the service article takes over, replacing the internal honesty and truth needed in fiction with a
richness of honest, objective, concrete, realistic domestic
detail-the color of walls or lipstick, the exact temperature
of the oven.
Judging from the women's magazines today, it would
seem that the concrete details of women's lives are more
interesting than their thoughts, their ideas, their dreams. Or
does the richness and realism of the detail, the careful description of small events, mask the lack of dreams, the vacuum of ideas, the terrible boredom that has settled over
the American housewife?
I sat in the office of another old-timer, one of the few
women editors left in the women's magazine world, now
" so largely dominated by men. She explained her share in
creating the feminine mystique. "Many of us were psychoanalyzed," she recalled. "And we began to feel embarrassed
about being career women ourselves. There was this terrible fear that we were losing our femininity. We kept looking for ways to help women accept their feminine role."
If the real women editors were not, somehow, able to
give up their own careers, all the more reason to "help"
other women fulfill themselves as wives and mothers. The
few women who still sit in editorial conferences do not
bow to the feminine mystique in their own lives. But such
is the power of the image they have helped create that
many of them feel guilty. And if they have missed out some-

50

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

where on love or children, they wonder if their careers
were to blame.
Behind her cluttered desk, a Mademoiselle editor said uneasily, "The girls we bring in now as college guest editors
seem almost to pity us. Because we are career women, I
suppose. At a luncheon session with the last bunch, we
asked them to go round the table, telling us their own career
plans. Not one of the twenty raised her hand. When I remember how I worked to learn this job and loved it-were
we all crazy then?"
Coupled with the women editors who sold themselves
their own bill of goods, a new breed of women writers began to write about themselves as if they were "just housewives," reveling in a comic world of children's pranks and
eccentric washing machines and Parents' Night at the PTA.
"After making the bed of a twelve-year-old boy week after
week, climbing Mount Everest would seem a laughable anticlimax," writes Shirley Jackson (McCall's, April, 1956).
When Shirley Jackson, who all her adult life has been an
extremely capable writer, pursuing a craft far more demanding than bedmaking, and Jean Kerr, who is a playwright, and Phyllis McGinley, who is a poet, picture themselves as housewives, they mayor may not overlook the
housekeeper or maid who really makes the beds. But they
implicitly deny the vision, and the satisfying hard work involved in their stories, poems, and plays. They deny the
lives they lead, not as housewives, but as individuals.
They are good craftsmen, the best of these Housewife
Writers. And some of their work is funny. The things that
happen with children, a twelve-year-old boy's first cigarette, the Little League and the kindergarten rhythm band
are often funny; they happen in real life to women who are
writers as well as women who are just housewives. But
there is something about Housewife Writers that isn't funny
-like Uncle Tom, or Amos and Andy. "Laugh,'.' the Housewife Writers tell the real housewife, "if you are feeling desperate, empty, bored, trapped in the bedmaking, chauffeuring and dishwashing details. Isn't it funny? We're all in the
same trap." Do real housewives then dissipate in laughter
their dreams and their sense of desperation? Do they think
their frustrated abilities and their limited lives are a joke?
Shirley Jackson makes the beds, loves and laughs at her son
-and writes another book. Jean Kerr's plays are produced
on Broadway. The joke is not on them.

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

51

Some of the new Housewife Writers live the image; Redbook tells us that the author of an article on "Breast-Feeding," a woman named Betty Ann Countrywoman, "had
planned to be a doctor. But just before her graduation from
Radcliffe cum laude, she shrank from the thought that such
a dedication might shut her off from what she really wanted, which was to marry and have a large family. She enrolled in the Yale University School of Nursing and then
became engaged to a young psychiatrist on their first date.
Now they have six children, ranging in age from 2 to 13,
and Mrs. Countrywoman is instructor in breast-feeding at
the Maternity League of Indianapolis" (Redbook, June,
1960). She says:
For the mother, breast-feeding becomes a complement
to the act of creation. It gives her a heightened sense of
fulfillment and allows her to participate in a relationship
as close to perfection as any that a woman can hope to
achieve. . . . The simple fact of giving birth, however,
does not of itself fulfill this need and longing. . • •
Motherliness is a way of life. It enables a woman to express her total self with the tender feelings, the protective
attitudes, the encompassing love of the motherly woman.
When motherhood, a fulfillment held sacred down the
ages, is defined as a total way of life, must women themselves deny the world and the future open to them? Or
does the denial of that world force them to make motherhood a total way of life? The line between mystique and
reality dissolves; real women embody the split in the image
In the spectacular Christmas 1956 issue of Life, devoted in
full to the "new" American woman, we see, not as women's-magazine villain, but as documentary fact, the typical
"career woman-that fatal error that feminism propagated"-seeking "help" from a psychiatrist. She is bright, welleducated, ambitious, attractive; she makes about the same
money as her husband; but she is pictured here as "frustrated," so "masculinized" by her career that her castrated,
impotent, passive husband is indifferent to her sexually. He
refuses to take responsibility and drowns his destroyed masculinity in alcoholism.
Then there is the discontented suburban wife who raises
hell at the PTA; morbidly denres<ed. <pe destroys her children and dominates her husband whom she envies for go-

52

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ing out into the business world. "The wife, having worked
before marriage, or at least having been educated for some
kind of intellectual work, finds herself in the lamentable
position of being 'just a housewife.' . . . In her disgruntlement she can work as much damage on the lives of her
husband and children (and her own life) as if she were a
career woman, and indeed, sometimes more."
And finally, in bright and smiling contrast, are the new
housewife-mothers, who cherish their "differentness," their
"unique femininity," the "receptivity and passivity implicit
in their sexual nature." Devoted to their own beauty and
their ability to bear and nurture children, they are "feminine women, with truly feminine attitudes, admired by men
for their miraculous, God-given, sensationally unique ability to wear skirts, with all the implications of that fact."
Rejoicing in "the reappearance of the old-fashioned threeto-five-child family in an astonishing quarter, the upperand upper-middle class suburbs," Life says:
Here, among women who might be best qualified for
"careers," there is an increasing emphasis on the nurturing and homemaking values. One might guess . . . that
because these women are better informed and more mature than the average, they have been the first to comprehend the penalties of "feminism" and to react against
them. . .. Styles in ideas as well as in dress and decoration tend to seep down from such places to the broader
population. . . . This is the counter-trend which may
eventually demolish the dominant and disruptive trend
and make marriage what it should be: a true partnership in which . . . men are men, women are women,
and both are quietly, pleasantly, securely confident of
which they are-and absolutely delighted to find themselves married to someone of the opposite sex.

Look glowed at about the same time (October 16,
1956):
The American woman is winning the battle of the
sexes. Like a teenager, she is growing up and confounding her critics. . . . No longer a psychological immigrant
to man's world, she works, rather casually, as a third of
the U . S. labor force, less towards a "big career" than as
a way of filling a hope chest or buying a new home freezer. She gracefully concedes the top jobs to men. This

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

53

wondrous creature also marries younger than ever, bears
more babies and looks and acts far more feminine than
the "emancipated" girl of the 1920's or even '30's. Steelworker's wife and Junior Leaguer alike do their own
housework. . .. Today, if she makes an old-fashioned
choice 'and lovingly tends a garden and a bumper crop of
children, she rates louder hosannas than ever before.
In the new America, fact is more important than fiction.
The documentary Lite and Look images of real women
who devote their lives to children and home are played
back as the ideal, the way women should be: this is powerful stuff, not to be shrugged off like the heroines of women's
magazine fiction. When a mystique is strong, it makes its
own fiction of fact. It feeds on the very facts which might
contradict it, and seeps into every corner of the culture,
bemusing even the social critics.
Adlai Stevenson, in a commencement address at Smith
College in 1955, reprinted in Woman's Home Companion
(September, 1955), dismissed the desire of educated women to play their own political part in "the crises of the
age." Modern woman's participation in politics is through
her role as wife and mother, said the spokesman of democratic liberalism: "Women, especially educated women,
have a unique opportunity to influence us, man and boy."
The
problem is woman's failure to a reciate that
her true part In e po Itlcal crisis is as wife and mother.
Once immersed in the very pressing and particular
problems of domesticity, many women feel frustrated
and far apart from the great issues and stirring debate
for which their education has given them understanding
and relish. 0YC8 they wrote poetry. Now it's the laundrylist. Once they discussed art and philosophy until late in
~night. Now they are so tired they fall asleep as soon
as the dishes are finished. There is, often, a sense of
contraction, of closing horizons and lost opportunities.
They had hoped to play their part in the crises of the age.
But what they do is wash the diapers.
The point is that whether we talk of Africa, Islf\m or
Asia, women "never had it so good" as yOll. Tn ' short,
far from the vocation of marriage and moth"rhood leading yO'1 away from the great iss~les of our day, it brings
you back to their very center and places upon you an

54

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
infinitely deeper and more intimate responsibility than
that borne by the majority of those who hit the headlines and make the news and live in such a turmoil of
great issues that they end by being totally unable to distinguish which issues are really great.

Woman's political job is to "inspire in her home a vision
of the meaning of life and freedom . . . to help her husband find values that will give purpose to his specialized
daily chores . . . to teach her children the uniqueness of
each individual human being."
This assignment for you, as wives and mothers, you
can do in the living room with a baby in your lap or in
the kitchen with a can opener in your hand. If you're
clever, maybe you can even practice your saving arts on
that unsuspecting man while he's watching television. I
think there is much you can do about our crisis in the
humble role of housewife. I could wish you no better vocation than that.
Thus the logic of the feminine mystique redefined the
very nature of woman's problem. When woman was seen
as a human being of limitless human potential, equal to
man, anything that kept her from realizing her full potential was a problem to be solved: barriers to higher education and political participation, discrimination or prejudice
in law or morality. But now that woman is seen only in
terms of her sexual role, the barriers to the realization of
her full potential, the prejudices which deny her full participation in the world, are no longer problems. The only problems now are those that might disturb her adjustment as
a housewife. So career is a problem, education is a problem, political interest, even the very admission of women's
intelligence and individuality is a problem. And finally
there is the problem that has no name, a vague undefined
wi~h for "something more" than washing dishes, ironing,
punishing and praising the children. In the women's magazines, it is solved either by dyeing one's hair blonde or by
having another baby. "Remember, when we were all children, how we all planned to 'be something?' " says a young
housewife in the Ladies' Home Journal (February, 1960).
Boasting that she has worn out six copies of Dr. Spock's

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

55

baby-care book in seven years, she cries, "I'm lucky! Lucky!
I'M SO GLAD TO BE A WOMAN!"
In one of these stories ("Holiday," Mademoiselle, August, 1949) a desperate young wife is ordered by her doctor to get out of the house one day a week. She goes shopping, tries on dresses, looks in the mirror wondering which
one her husband, Sam, will like.
Always Sam, like a Greek chorus in the back of her
head. As if she herself hadn't a definiteness of her own,
a clarity that was indisputably hers. . . . Suddenly she
couldn't make the difference between pleated and gored
skirts of sufficient importance to fix her decision. She
looked at herself in the full-length glass, tall, getting thicker around the hips, the lines of her face beginning to slip.
She was twenty-nine, but she felt middle-aged, as if a
great many years had passed and there wasn't very much
yet to come . . . which was ridiculous, for Ellen was
only three. There was her whole future to plan for, and
perhaps another child. It was not a thing to be put off too
long.
When the young housewife in "The Man Next to Me"
(Redbook, November, 1948) discovers that her elaborate
dinner party didn't help her husband get a raise after all,
she is in despair. ("You should say I helped. You should
say I'm good for something . . . Life was like a puzzle
with a piece missing, and the piece was me, and I couldn't
figure my place in it at all.") So she dyes her hair blonde,
and when her husband reacts satisfactorily in bed to the
new "blonde me," she "felt a new sense of peace, as if I'd
answered the question within myself."
Over and over again, stories in women's magazines insist
that woman can know fulfillment only at the moment of
giving birth to a child. They deny the years when she can
no longer look forward to giving birth, even if she repeats
that act over and over again. In the feminine mystique,
there is no other way for a woman to dream of creation or
of the future. There is no way she can even dream about
herself, except as her children's mother, her husband's wife.
And the documentary articles play back new young housewives, grown up under the mystique, who do not have even
that "question within myself." Says one, described in "How

56

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

America Lives" (Ladies' Home Journal, June, 1959): "If
he doesn't want me to wear a certain color or a certain
kind of dress, then I truly don't want to, either. The thing
is, whatever he has wanted is what I also want. . . . I
don't believe in fifty-fifty marriages." Giving up college and
job to marry at eighteen, with no regrets, she "never tried
to enter into the discussion when the men were talking. She
never disputed her husband in anything. . . . She spent a
great deal of time looking out the window at the snow, the
rain, and the gradual emergence of the first crocuses. One
great time-passer and consolation was . . . embroidery:
tiny stitches in gold-metal or silken thread which require infinite concentration."
There is no problem, in the logic of the feminine mystique, for such a woman who has no wishes of her own,
who defines herself only as wife and mother. The problem,
if there is one, can only be her children's, or her husband's.
It is the husband who complains to the marriage counselor
(Redbook, June, 1955): "The way I see it, marriage takes
two people, each living his own life and then putting them
together. Mary seems to think we both ought to live one
life: mine." Mary insists on going with him to buy shirts
and socks, tells the clerk his size and color. When he comes
home at night, she asks with whom he ate lunch, where,
what did he talk about? When he protests, she says, "But
darling, I want to share your life, be part of all you do,
that's all. . . . I want us to be one, the way it says in the
marriage service . . ." It doesn't seem reasonable to the
husband that "two people can ever be one the way Mary
means it. It's just plain ridiculous on the face of it. Besides,
I wouldn't like it. I don't want to be so bound to another
person that I can't have a thought or an action that's strictly my own."
The answer to "Pete's problem," says Dr. Emily Mudd,
the famous marriage counsellor, is to make Mary feel she
is living his life: invite her to town to lunch with the people in his office once in a while, order his favorite veal dish
for her and maybe find her some "healthy physical activity," like swimming, to drain off her excess energy. It is not
Mary's problem that she has no life of her own.
The ultimate, in housewife happiness, is finally achieved
by the Texas housewife, described in "How America Lives"
(Ladies' Home Journal, October, 1960), who "sits on a
pale aqua satin sofa gazing out her picture window at the

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

57

street. Even at this hour of the morning (it is barely nineo'clock), she is wearing rouge, powder and lipstick, and her
cotton dress is immaculately fresh." She says proudly: "By
8: 30 A.M., when my youngest goes to school, my whole
house is clean and neat and 1 am dressed for the day, 1 am
free to play bridge, attend club meetings, or stay home and
read, listen to Beethoven, and just plain loaf."
"Sometimes, she washes and dries her hair before sitting
down at a bridge table at 1:30. Mornings she is having
bridge at her house are the busiest, for then she must get
out the tables, cards, tallies, prepare fresh coffee and organize lunch. . . . During the winter months, she may play
as often as four days a week from 9: 30 to 3 P.M. '.' •
Janice is careful to be home, before her sons return from
school at 4 P.M."
She is not frustrated, this new young housewife. An honor student at lligh school, married at eighteen, remarried
and pregnant at twenty, she has the house she spent seven
years dreaming and planning in detail. She is proud of her
efficiency as a housewife, getting it all done by 8:30. She
does the major housecleaning on Saturday, when her husband fishes and her sons are busy with Boy Scouts.
("There's nothing else to do. No bridge games. It's a long
day for me.")
" 'I love my home,' she says. . • . The pale gray paint in
her L-shaped living and dining room is five years old, but
still in perfect condition. . . . The pale peach and yellow
and aqua damask upholstery looks spotless after eight years'
wear. 'Sometimes, 1 feel I'm too passive, too content,' remarks Janice, fondly, regarding the wristband of large family diamonds she wears even when the watch itself is being
repaired. . . . Her favorite possession is her four-poster
spool bed with a pink taffeta canopy. 'I feel just like Queen
Elizabeth sleeping in that bed,' she says happily" (Her hus.;band sleeps in another room, since he snores.)
"'I'm so grateful for my blessings,' she says. 'Wonderful
husband, handsome sons with dispositions to match, big
comfortable house. . . . I'm thankful for my good health
and faith in God and such material possessions as two cars,
two TV's and two fireplaces.' "
Staring uneasily at this image,) wonder if a few problems
somehow better than this smiling empty passiyity.~
t ey are happy, these young women who live the femi-

~

58

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

nine mystique, then is this the end of the road? Or are the
seeds of something worse than frustration inherent in this
image? Is there a growing divergence between this image of
woman and human reality?
Consider, as a symptom, the increasing emphasis on
glamour in the women's magazines: the housewife wearing
eye makeup as she vacuums the floor-"The Honor of Being a Woman." Why does "Occupation: housewife" require
such insistent glamorizing year after year? The strained
glamour is in itself a question mark: the lady doth protest
too much.
The image of woman in another era required increasing
prudishness to keep denying sex. This new image seems to
require increasing mindlessness, increasing emphasis on
things: two cars, two TV's, two fireplaces. Whole pages of
women's magazines are filled with gargantuan vegetables:
beets, cucumbers, green peppers, potatoes, described like a
love affair. The very size of their print is raised until it
looks like a first-grade primer. The new McCall's frankly
assumes women are brainless, fluffy kittens; the Ladies'
Home Journal, feverishly competing, procures rock-androller Pat Boone as a counselor to teenagers; Rer.lbook and
the others enlarge their own type size. Does the size of the
print mean that the new young women, ~om all the magazines are courting, have only first-grade minds? Or does
it try to hide the triviality of the content? Within the confines of what is now accepted as woman's world, an editor
may no longer be able to think of anything big to do except
blow up a baked potato, or describe a kitchen as if it were
the Hall of Mirrors; he is, after all, forbidden by the mystique to deal with a big idea. But does it not occur to any
of the men who run the women's magazines that their troubles may stem from the smallness of the image with which
they are truncating women's minds?
They are all in trouble today, the mass-circulation magazines, vying fiercely with each other and television to deliver more and more millions of women who will buy the
things their advertisers sell. Does this frantic race force the
men who make the images to see women only as thingbuyers? Does it force them to compete finally in emptying
women's minds of human thought? The fact is, the troubles
of the image-makers seem to be increasing in direct proportion to the increasing mindlessness of their image. During the years in which that image has narrowed woman's

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

59

world down to the home, cut her role back to housewife,
five of the mass-circulation magazines geared to women
have ceased publication; others are on the brink.
The growing boredom of women with the empty, narrow
image of the women's magazines may be the most hopeful
sign of the image's divorce from reality. But there are more
violent symptoms on the part of women who are committed to that image. In 1960, the editors of a magazine
specifically geared to the happy young housewife-or rather to the new young couples (the wives are not considered
separate from their husbands and children)-ran an article
asking, "Why Young Mothers Feel Trapped" (Redbook,
September, 1960). As a promotion stunt, they invited
young mothers with such a problem to write in the details,
for $500. The editors were shocked to receive 24,000 replies. Can an image of woman be cut down to the point
where it becomes itself a trap?
At one of the major women's magazines, a woman editor, sensing that American housewives might be desperately
in need of something to enlarge their world, tried for some
months to convince her male colleagues to introduce a few
ideas outside the home into the magazine. "We decided
against it," the man who makes the final decisions said.
"Women are so completely divorced from the world of
ideas in their lives now, they couldn't take it." Perhaps it is
irrelevant to ask, who divorced them? Perhaps these (Frankensteins no longer have the power to stop the feminine
monster they have created.
I helped create this image. I have watched American
women for fifteen years try to conform to it. But I can no
longer deny my own knowledge of its terrible implications.
It is not a harmless image. There may be no psychological
terms for the harm it is doing. But what happens when
women try to live according to an image that makes them
deny their minds? What happens when women grow up in
an image that makes them deny the reality of the changing
world?
The material details of life, the daily burden of cooking
and cleaning, of taking care of the physical needs of husband and children-these did inrleed define a woman's
world a century apo when Americans were pioneers, and
the American frontier lay in connuering the land. But the
women who went wp rt with t1"e wagon trains also shared
the pioneering purpose. Now the American frontiers are of

60

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the mind, and of the spirit. Love and children and home
are good, but they are not the whole world, even if most of
the words now written for women pretend they are. Why
should women accept this picture of a half-life, instead of
a share in the whole of human destiny? Why should women
try to make housework "something more," instead of moving on the frontiers of their own time, as American women
moved beside their husbands on the old frontiers?
A baked potato is not as big as the world, and vacuuming the living room floor-with or without makeup--is not
work that takes enough thought or energy to challenge any
woman's full capacity. Women are human beings, not
stuffed dolls, not animals. Down through the ages man has
known that he was set apart from other animals by his
mind's power to have an idea, a vision, and shape the future to it. He shares a need for food and sex with other
animals, but when he loves, he loves as a man, and when
he discovers and creates and shapes a future different from
his past, he is a man, a human being.
This is the real mystery: why did so many American
women, with the ability and education to discover and create, go back home again, to look for "something more" in
housework and rearing children? For, paradoxically, in the
same fifteen years in which the spirited New Woman was
replaced by the Happy Housewife, the boundaries of the
human world have widened, the pace of world change has
quickened, and the very nature of human reality has become increasingly free from biological and material necessity. Does the mystique keep American woman from growing with the world? Does it force her to deny reality, as a
woman in a mental hospital must deny reality to believe she
is a queen? Does it doom women to be displaced persons,
if not virtual schizophrenics, in our complex, changing
world?
It is more than a strange paradox that as all professions
are finally open to women in America, "career woman"
has become a dirty word ; that as higher education becomes
available to any woman with the capacity for it, education
for women has become so suspect that more and more
drop out of high school and college to marry and have
babies: that as so many roles in modern society become
theirs for the taking, women so insi'tent'y confine themselves to one role. Why, with the removal of all the legal,
political, economic, and educational barriers that once kept

THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE

61

woman from being man's equal, a person in her own right,
an individual free to develop her own potential, should she
accept this new image which insists she is not a person but
a "woman," by definition barred from the freedom of human existence and a voice in human destiny?
The feminine mystique is so powerful that women grow
up no longer knowing that they have the desires and capacities the mystique forbids. But such a mystique does not
fasten itself on a whole nation in a few short years, reversing the trends of a century, without cause. What gives the
mystique its power? Why did women go home again?

T H REE
THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY
I DISCOVERED A STRANGE THING, INTERVIEWING WOM-

en of my own generation over the past ten years. When we
were growing up, many of us could not see ourselves beyond the age of twenty-one. We had no image of our own
future, of ourselves as women.
I remember the stillness of a spring afternoon on the
Smith campus in 1942, when I came to a frightening dead
end in my own vision of the future. A few days earlier, I
had received a notice that I had won a graduate fellowship. During the congratulations, underneath my excitement, I felt a strange uneasiness; there was a question that
I did not want to think about.
"Is this really what I want to beT' The question shut me
off, cold and alone, from the girls talking and studying on
the sunny hillside behind the college house. I thought I was
going to be a psychologist. But if I wasn't sure, what did I
want to be? I felt the future closing in-and I could not
see myself in it at all. I had no image of myself, stretching
beyond college. I had come at seventeen from a Midwestern town, an unsure girl; the wide horizons of the world and
the life of the mind had been opened to me. I had begun
to know who I was and what I wanted to do. I could not
go back now. I could not go home again, to the life of my
mother and the women of our town, bound to home,
bridge, shopping, children, husband, charity, clothes. But
now that the time had come to make my own future, to
take the deciding step, I suddenly did not know what I
wanted to be.
I took the fellowship, but the next spring, under the alien
California sun of another campus, the question came again,
and I could not put it out of my mind. I had won another
fellowship that would have committed me to research for
my doctorate, to a career as professional psychologist. "Is
this really what I want to be?" The decision now truly terri-

THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY

63

fied me. I lived in a terror of indecision for days, unable to
think of anything else.
The question was not important, I told myself. No question was important to me that year bot love. We walked in
the Berkeley hills and a boy said: "Nothing can come of
this, between us. I'll never win a fellowship like yours."
Did I think I would be choosing, irrevocably, the cold loneliness of that afternoon if I went on? I gave up the fellowship, in relief. But for years afterward, I could not read a
word of the science that once I had thought of as my future life's work; the reminder of its loss was too painful.
I never could explain, hardly knew myself, why I gave
up this career. I lived in the present, working on newspapers with no particular plan. I married, had children, lived
according to the feminine mystique as a suburban housewife. But still the question haunted me. I could sense no
purpose in my life, I could find no peace, until I finally
faced it and worked out my own answer.
I discovered, talking to Smith seniors in 1959, that the
question is no less terrifying to girls today. Only they answer it now in a way that my generation found, after half
a lifetime, not to be an answer at all. These girls, mostly
seniors, were sitting in the living room of the college house,
having coffee. It was not too different from such an evening when I was a senior, except that many more of the
girls wore rings on their left hands. I asked the ones around
me what they planned to be. The engaged ones spoke of
weddings, apartments, getting a job as a secretary while husband finished school. The others, after a hostile silence.
gave vague answers about this job or that, graduate study,
but no one had any real plans. A blonde with a ponytail
asked me the next day if I had believed the things they had
said. "None of it was true," she told me. "We don't like to
be asked what we want to do. None of us know. None of
us even like to think about it. The ones who are going to be
married right away are the lucky ones. They don't have to
think about it."
But I noticed that night that many of the engaged girls,
sitting silently around the fire while I asked the others
about jobs, bad also seemed angry about something. "They
don't want to think about not going on," my ponytailed informant said. "They know they're not going to use their
education. They'll be wives and mothers. You can say you're

64

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

going to keep on reading and be interested in the community. But that's not the same. You won't really go on. It's a
disappointment to know you're going to stop now, and not
go on and use it."
In counterpoint, I heard the words of a woman, fifteen
years after she left college, a doctor's wife, mother of three,
who said over coffee in her New England kitchen:
The tragedy was, nobody ever looked us in the eye
and said you have to, decide what you want to do with
your life, besides being your husband's wife and children's
mother. I never thought it through until 1 was thirty-six,
and my husband was so busy with his practice that he
couldn't entertain me every night. The three boys were
in school all day. I kept on trying to have babies desgite
an Rh discrepancy. After two miscarriages, they said I
must stop. 1 thought that my own growth and evolution
were over. I always knew as a child that I was going to
grow up and go to college, and then get married, and
that's as far as a girl has to think. After that, your husband determines and fills your life. It wasn't until 1 got
so lonely as the doctor's wife and kept screaming at the
kids because they didn't fill my life that I realized I had
to make my own life. 1 still had to decide what 1 wanted
to be. 1 'hadn't finished evolving at all. But it took me
ten years to think it through.
The feminine mystique permits, even encourages, women
to ignore the question of their identity. The mystique says
they can -answer the question "Who am I?" by saying
"Tom's wife . . . Mary's mother." But 1 don't think the
mystique would have such power over American women
if they did not fear to face this terrifying blank which
makes them unable to see themselves after twenty-one. The
truth is-and how long it has been true, I'm not sure, but it
was true in my generation and it is true of girls growing up
today-an American woman no longer has a private image
to tell her who she is, or can be, or wants to be.
The public image, in the magazines and television commercials, is designed to sell washing machines, cake mixes,
deodorants, detergents, rejuvenating face creams, hair tints.
But the power of that image, on which companies spend
millions of dollars for television time and ad space, comes
from this: American women no longer know who they are.

THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY

65

They are sorely in need of a new image to help them find
their identity. As the motivational researchers keep telling
the advertisers, American women are so unsure of who
they should be that they look to this glossy public image to
decide every detail of their lives. They look for the image
they will no longer take from their mothers.
In my generation, many of us knew that we did not want
to be like our mothers, even when we loved them. We could
not help but see their disappointment. Did we understand,
or only resent, the sadness, the emptiness, that made them
hold too fast to us, try to live our lives, run our fathers'
lives, spend their days shopping or yearning for things that
never seemed to satisfy them, no matter how much money
they cost? Strangely, many mothers who loved their daughters-and mine was one--did not want their daughters to
grow up like them either. They knew we needed something
more.
But even if they urged, insisted, fought to help us educate
ourselves, even if they talked with yearning of careers that
were not open to them, they could not give us an image of
what we could be. They could only tell us that their lives
were too empty, tied to home; that children, cooking,
clothes, bridge, and charities were not enough. A mother
might tell her daughter, spell it out, "Don't be just a housewife like me." But that daughter, sensing that her mother
was too frustrated to savor the love of her husband and
children, might feel: "I will succeed where my mother
failed, I will fulfill myself as a woman," and never read
the lesson of her mother's life.
Recently, interviewing high-school girls who had started
out full of promise and talent, but suddenly stopped their
education, I began to see new dimensions to the problem of
feminine conformity. These girls, it seemed at first, were
merely following the typical curve of feminine adjustment.
Earlier interested in geology or poetry, they now were interested only in being popular; to get boys to like them, they
had concluded, it was better to be like all the other girls.
On closer examination, I found that these girls were so terrified of becoming like their mothers that they could not
see themselves at all. They were afraid to grow up. They
had to copy in identical detail the composite image of the
popular girl-denying what was best in themselves out of
fear of femininity as they saw it in their mothers. One of
theae girls, seventeen years old, told me:

66

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

I want so badly to feel like the other girls. I never get
over this feeling of being a neophyte, not initiated. When
I get up and have to cross a room, it's like I'm a beginner,
Qr have some terrible affliction, and I'll never learn. I
go to the local hangout after school and sit there for
hours talking about clothes and hairdos and the twist,
and I'm not that interested, so it's an effort. But I found
out I could make them like me-:-just do what they do,
dress like them, talk like them, not do things that are different. I guess I even started to make myself not different inside.
I used to write poetry. The guidance office says I have
this creative ability and I should be at the top of the
class and have a great future. But things like that aren't
what you need to be popular. The important thing for a
girl is to be popular.
Now I go out with boy after boy, and it's such an effort because I'm not myself with them. It makes you
feel even more alone. And besides, I'm afraid of where
it's going to lead. Pretty soon, all my differences wi1l be
smoothed out, and I'll be the kind of girl that could be a
housewife.
I don't want to think of growing up. If I had children,
I'd want them to stay the same age. If I had to watch
them grow up, I'd see myself growing older, and I
wouldn't want to. My mother says she can't sleep at
night, she's sick with worry over what I might do. When
I ,was little, she wouldn't let me cross the street alone,
long after the other kids did.
I can't see myself as being married and having children.
It's as if I wouldn't have any personality myself. My
mother's like a rock that's been smoothed by the waves,
like a void. She's put so much into her family that there's
nothing left, and she resents us because she doesn't get
enough in return. But sometimes it seems like there's
nothing there. My mother doesn't serve any purpose except cleaning the house. She isn't happy, and she doesn't
make my father happy. If she didn't care about us children at all, it would have the same effect as caring too
much. It makes you want to do the opposite. I don't
think it's really love. When I was little and I ran in all
excited to tell her I'd learned how to stand on my head,
she was never listening.
Lately, I look into the mirror, and I'm so afraid I'm

THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY

67

going to look like my mother. It frightens me, to catch
myself being like her in gestures or speech or anything.
I'm not like her in so many ways, but if I'm like her in
this one way, perhaps I'll turn out like my mother after
all. And that terrifies me.
And so the seventeen-year-old was so afraid of being a
woman like her mother that she turned her back on ail
,the things in herself and all the opportunities that would
have made her a different woman, to copy from the outside
the "popular" girls. And finally, in panic at losing herself,
she turned her back on her own popularity and defied the
conventional good behavior that would have won her a college scholarship. For lack of an image that would help her
grow up as a woman true to herself, she retreated into the
beatnik vacuum.
Another girl, a college junior from South Carolina told
me:
I don't want to be interested in a career I'll have to
give up.
My mother wanted to be a newspaper reporter from
the time she was twelve, and I've seen her frustration for
twenty years. I don't want to be interested in world affairs. I don't want to be interested in anything beside my
home and being a wonderful wife and mother. Maybe
education is a liability. Even the brightest boys atliome
~t a sweet,pretty girl. ·Only sometimes I wonder
how it would feel to be able to stretch and stretch and
stretch, and learn all you want, and not have to hold
yourself back.
Her mother, almost all our mothers, were housewives,
though many had started or yearned for or regretted giving
up careers. Whatever they told us, we, having eyes and ears
and mind and heart, knew that their lives were somehow
empty. We did not want to be like them, and yet what
other model did we have?
The only other kind of women I knew, growing up, were
the old-maid high-school teachers; the librarian; the one
woman doctor in our town, who cut her hair like a man;
and a few of my college professors. None of these women
lived in the warm center of life as I had known it at home.
Many had not married or had children. I dreaded being
like them, even the ones who taught me truly to respect my

68

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

own mind and use it, to feel that I had a part in the world.
I never knew a woman, when I was growing up, who used
her mind, played her own part in the world, and also loved,
and had children.
I think that this has been the unknown heart of woman's
problem in America for a long time, this lack of a private
image. Public images that defy reason and have very little
to do with women themselves have had the power to shape
too much of their lives. These images would not have such
power, if women were not suffering a crisis of identity.
The strange, terrifying jumping-off point that American
women feach-at eighteen, twenty-one, twenty-five, fortyone--has been noticed for many years by sociologists, psychologists, analysts, educators. But I think it has not been
understood for what it is. It has been called a "discontinuity" in cultural conditioning; it has been called woman's
"role crisis." It has been blamed on the education which
made American girls grow up feeling free and equal to boys
-playing baseball, riding bicycles, conquering geometry and
college boards, going away to college, going out in the world
to get a job, living alone in an apartment in New York or
Chicago or San Francisco, testing and discovering their own
powers in the world. All this gave girls the feeling they could
be and do whatever they wanted to, with the same freedom
as boys, the critics said. It did not prepare them for their
role as women. The crisis comes when they are forced to
adjust to this role. Today's high rate of emotional distress
and breakdown among women in their twenties and thirties
is usually attributed to this "rale crisis." If girls were educated for their role as women, they would not suffer this
crisis, the adjusters say.
But I think they have seen only half the truth.
What if the terror a girl faces at twenty-one, when she
must decide who she will be, is simply the terror of growing
up-growing up, as women were not permitted to grow
before? What if the terror a girl faces at twenty-one is the
terror of freedom to decide her own life, with no one to
order which path she will take, the freedom and the necessity to take paths women before were not able to take?
What if those who choose the path of "feminine adjust""jj1ejn' =evadillg nils terror by~a!IYingat eTgnteen, losing
themselves III havTngDaOles and the details of housekeeping
are SImply refusmg to grow up, to face the question of"
th~ty7

c=:_..

/

THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY

69

Mine was the first college generation to run head-on into
the new mystique of feminine fulfillment. Before then,
while most women did indeed end up as housewives and
mothers, the point of education was to discover the life of
the mind, to pursue truth and to take a place in the world.
There was a sense, already dulling when I went to college,
that we would be New Women. Our world would be much
larger than home. Forty per cent of my college class at
Smith had career plans. But I remember how, even then,
some of the seniors, suffering the pangs of that bleak fear of
the future, envied the few who escaped it by getting married right away.
The ones we envied then are suffering that terror now at
forty. "Never have decided what kind of woman I am. Too
much personal life in college. Wish I'd studied more science, history, government, gone deeper into philosophy,"
one wrote on an alumnae questionnaire, fifteen years later.
"Still trying to find the rock to build on. Wish I had finished college. I got married instead." "Wish I'd developed
a deeper and more creative life of my own and that I
hadn't become engaged and married at nineteen. Having expected the ideal in marriage, including a hundred-per-cent
devoted husband, it was a shock to find this isn't the way it
is," wrote a mother of six.
Many of the younger generation of wives who marry
early have never suffered this lonely terror. They thought
they did not have to choose, to look into the future and
plan what they wanted to do with their lives. They had
only to wait to be chosen, marking time passively until the
husband, the babies, the new house decided what the rest
of their lives would be. They slid easily into their sexual
role as women before they knew who they were themselves.
It is these women who suffer most the problem that has no
name.
:q..is "";;:~besjs that the core of the ~blem for women
t9illtiis ot sexllal but a..1'.roblem of i entity-a stuntmg
or evasion of growth that is perpefUate""dbY the feminine
mystique. It is my thesis that as the Victorian culture did
not permit women to accept or gratify their basic sexual
needs, our culture does not permit women to accept or
gratify their basic need to grow and fulfill their potentialities as human beings, a need which is not solely defined by
their sexual role.
Biologists have recently discovered a "youth serum"

70

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

which, if fed to young caterpillars in the larva state, will
keep them from ever maturing into moths; they will live
out their lives as caterpillars. The expectations of feminine
fulfillment that are fed to women by magazines, television,
movies, and books that popularize psychological halftruths, and by parents, teachers and counselors who accept
the feminine mystique, operate as a kind of youth serum,
keeping most women in the state of sexual larvae, preventing them from achieving the maturity of which they are capable. And there is increasing evidence that woman's failure to grow to complete identity has hampered rather than
enriched her sexual fulfillment, virtually doomed her to be
castrative to her husband and sons, and caused neuroses,
or problems as yet unnamed as neuroses, equal to those
caused by sexual repression.
There have been identity crises for man at all the crucial
turning points in human history, though those who lived
through them did not give them that name. It is only in recent years that the theorists of psychology, sociology and
theology have isolated this problem, and given it a name.
But it is considered a man's problem. It is defined, for
man, as the crisis of growing up, of choosing his identity,
"the decision as to what one is and is going to be," in the
words of the brilliant phychoanalyst Erik H. Erikson:
I have called the major crisis of adolescence the identity crisis; it occurs in that period of the life cycle when
each youth must forge for himself some central perspective and direction, some working unity, out of the effective remnants of his childhood and the hopes of his anticipated adulthood; he must detect some meaningful
resemblance between what he has come to see in himself and what his sharpened awareness tells him others
judge and expect him to be. . . . In some people, in
some classes, at some periods in history, the crisis will be
minimal; in other people, classes and periods, the crisis
will be clearly marked off as a critical period, a kind of
"second birth," apt to be aggravated either by widespread
neuroticisms or by pervasive ideological unrest.!
In this sense, the identity crisis of one man's life may
reflect, or set off, a rebirth, or new stage, in the growing up
of mankind. "In some periods of his history, and in some
phases of his life cycle, man needs a new ideological orien-

THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY

71

tation as surely and sorely as he must have air and food,"
said Erikson, focusing new light on the crisis of the young
Martin Luther, who left a Catholic monastery at the end
of the Middle Ages to forge a new identity for himself and
Western man.
The search for identity is not new, however, in American thought-though in every generation, each man who
writes about it discovers it anew. In America, from the beginning, it has somehow been understood that men must
thrust into the future; the pace has always been too rapid
for man's identity to stand still. In every generation, many
men have suffered misery, unhappiness, and uncertainty because they could not take the image of the man they wanted to be from their fathers. The search for identity of the
young man who can't go home again has always been a
major theme of American writers. And it has always been
considered right in America, good, for men to suffer these
agonies of growth, to search for and find their own identities. The farm boy went to the city, the garment-maker's
son became a doctor, Abraham Lincoln taught himself to
read-these were more than rags-to-riches stories. They
were an integral part of the American dream. The problem for many was money, race, color, class, which barred
them from choice-not what they would be if they were
free to choose.
Even today a young man learns soon enough that he must
decide who he wants to be. If he does not decide in junior
high, in high school, in college, he must somehow come to
terms with it by twenty-five or thirty, or he is lost. But
this search for identity is seen as a greater problem now
because more and more boys cannot find images in our
culture-from their fathers or other men-to help them in
their search. The old frontiers have been conquered, and
the boundaries of the new are not so clearly marked. More
and more young men in America today suffer an identity
crisis for want of any image of man worth pursuing, for
want of a purpose that truly realizes their human abilities.
But why have theorists not recognized this same identity
crisis in women? In terms of the old conventions and the
new feminine mystique women are not expected to grow
up to find out who they are, to choose their human identity. Anatomy is woman's destiny, say the theorists of femininity; the identity of women is determined by her biology.
But is it? More and more women are asking themselves

72

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

this question. As if they were waking from a coma, they
ask, "Where am I . . . what am I doing here?" For the
first time in their history, women are becoming aware of
an identity crisis in their own lives, a crisis which began
many generations ago, has grown worse with each succeeding generation, and will not end until they, or their daughters, turn an unknown corner and make of themselves and
their lives the new image that so many women now so desperately need.
In a sense that goes beyond anyone woman's life, I think
this is the crisis of women growing up- a turning point
from an immaturity that has been called femininity to full
human identity. I think women had to suffer this crisis of
identity, which began a hundred years ago, and have to suffer it still today, simply to become fully human.

F0 UR
THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY
IT WAS THE NEED FOR A NEW IDENTITY THAT STARTED

women, a century ago, on that passionate journey, that vilified, misinterpreted journey away from home.
It has been popular in recent years to laugh at feminism
as one of history's dirty jokes: to pity, sniggering, those oldfashioned feminists who fought for women's rights to higher
education, careers, the vote. They were neurotic victims of
penis envy who wanted to be men, it is said now. In battling for women's freedom to participate in the major work
and decisions of society as the equals of men, they denied
their very nature as women, which fulfills itself only
through sexual passivity, acceptance of male domination,
and nurturing motherhood.
But if I am not mistaken, it is this first journey which
holds the clue to much that has happened to women since.
It is one of the strange blind spots of contemporary psychology not to recognize the reality of the passion that
moved these women to leave home in search of new identity, or, staying home, to yearn bitterly for something more.
Theirs was an act of rebellion, a violent denial of the identity of women as it was then defined. It was the need for a
new identity that led those passionate feminists to forge
new trails for women. Some of those trails were unexpectedly rough, some were dead ends, and some may have been
false, but the need for women to find new trails was real.
The problem of identity was new for women then, truly
new. The feminists were pioneering on the front edge of
woman's evolution. They had to prove that women were
human. They had to shatter, violently if necessary, the decorative Dresden figurine that represented the ideal woman
of the last century. They had to prove that woman was
not a passive, empty mirror, not a frilly, useless decoration,
not a mindless animal, not a thing to be disposed of by others, incapable of a voice in her own existence, before they

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
74
could even begin to fight for the rights women needed to
become the human equals of men.
Changeless woman, childish woman, a woman's place is
in the home, they were told. But man was changing; his
place was in the world and his world was widening. Woman
was being left behind. Anatomy was her destiny; she might
die giving birth to one baby, or live to be thirty-five, giving
birth to twelve, while man controlled his destiny with that
part of his anatomy which no other animal had: his mind.
Women also had minds. They also had the human need
to grow. But the work that fed life and moved it forward
was no longer done at home, and women were not trained
to understand and work in the world. Confined to the
home, a child among her children, passive, no part of her
-existence under her own control, a woman could only exist
by pleasing man. She was wholly dependent on his prote~
tion in a world that she had no share in making: man's
world. She could never grow up to ask the simple human
question, "Who am I? What do I want?"
Even if man loved her as a child, a doll, a decoration;
even if he gave her rubies, satin, velvets; even if she was
warm in her house, safe with her children, would she not
yearn for something more? She was, at that time, so completely defined as object by man, never herself as subject,
"I," that she was not even expected to enjoy or participate
in the act of sex. "He took his pleasure with her . . . he
had his way with her," as the sayings went. Is it so hard to
understand that emancipation, the right to full humanity,
was important enough to generations of women, still alive
or only recently dead, that some fought with their fists,
and went to jail and even died for it? And for the right to
human growth, some women denied their own sex, the d~
sire to love and be loved by a man, and to bear children.
It is a strangely unquestioned perversion of history that
the passion and fire of the feminist movement came from
man-hating, embittered, sex-starved spinsters, from castrating, unsexed non-women who burned with such envy for
the male organ that they wanted to take it away from all
men, or destroy them, demanding rights only because they
lacked the power to love as women. Mary Wollstonecraft,
Angelina Grimke, Ernestine Rose, Margaret Fuller, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Julia Ward Howe, Margaret Sanger all
loved, were loved, and married; many seem to have been
as passionate in their relations with lover and husband, in

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

75

an age when passion in woman was as forbidden as intelligence, as they were in their battle for woman's chance to
grow to full human stature. But if they, and those like Susan
Anthony, whom fortune or bitter experience turned away
from marriage, fought for a chance for woman to fulfill
herself, not in relation to man, but as an individual, it was
from a need as real and burning as the need for love.
("What woman needs," said Margaret Fuller, "is not as a
woman to act or rule, but as a nature to grow, as an intellect to discern, as a soul to live freely, and unimpeded to
unfold such powers as were given her.")
The feminists had only one model, one image, one vision,
of a full and free human being: man. For until very recently, only men (though not all men) had the freedom
and the education necessary to realize their full abilities, to
pioneer and create and discover, and map new trails for
future generations. Only men had the vote: the freedom
to shape the major decisions of society. Only men had the freedom to love, and enjoy love, and decide for themselves
in the eyes of their God the problems of right and wrong.
Did women want these freedoms because they wanted to
be men? Or did they want them because they also were
human?
That this is what feminism was all about was seen symbolically by Henrik Ibsen. When he said in the play "A
Doll's House," in 1879, that a woman was simply a human
being, he struck a new note in literature. Thousands of
women in middle-class Europe and America, in that Victorian time, saw themselves in Nora. And in 1960, almost
a century later, millions of American housewives, who
watched the play on television, also saw themselves as they
heard Nora say:
You have always been so kind to me. But our home
htls been nothing but a playroom. I have been your doll
wife, just as at home I was Papa's doll child; and here
the children have been my dolls. I thought it great fun
when you played with me, just as they thought it fun
when I played with them. That is what our marriage has
been, Torvald . . .
How am I fitted to bring up the children? . • . There
is another task I must undertake first. I must try and
educate myself-you are not the man to help me in that.
I must do that for myself. And that is why I am going to

I

76

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

leave you now • • • I must stand quite alone if I am to
understand myself and everything about me. It is for
that reason that I cannot remain with you any longer •••
Her shocked husband reminds Nora that woman's "most
sacred duties" are her duties to her husband and children.
"Before all else, you are a wife and mother," he says. And
Nora answers:
I believe that before all else I am a reasonable human
being, just as you are--or, at all events, that I must try
and become one. I know quite well, Torvald, that most
people would think you right, and that views of that kind
are to be found in books; but I can no longer content
myself with what most people say or with what is found
in books. I must think over things for myself and get to
understand them . . .
It is a cliche of our own time that women spent half a
century fighting for "rights," and the next half wondering
whether they wanted them after all. "Rights" have a dull
sound to people who have grown up after they have been
won. But like Nora, the feminists had to win those rights
before they could begin to live and love as human beings.
Not very many women then, or even now, dared to leave
the only security they knew--dared to turn their backs on
their homes and husbands to begin Nora's search. But a
great many, then as now, must have found their existence
as housewives so empty that they could no longer savor the
love of husband and children.
Some of them-and even a few men who realized that
half the human race was denied the right to become fully
human-set out to change the conditions that held women
in bondage. Those conditions were summed up by the first
Woman's Rights Convention in Seneca Falls, New York, in
1848, as woman's grievances against man:

He has compelled her to submit to laws in the formation of which she has no voice. . . . He has made her,
if married, in the eyes of the law, civilly dead. He has
taken from her all right to property, even to the wages
she earns . . . In the covenant of marriage, she is compelled to promise obedience to her husband, he becom-

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

77

ing to all intents and purposes her master-the law giving
him power to deprive her of her liberty, and to administer chastisement. . . . He closes against her all the
avenues of weahh and distinction which he considers
most honorable to himself. As a teacher of theology,
medicine or law, she is not known. He has denied her
the facilities for obtaining a thorough education, all colleges being closed against her. . . . He has created a
false public sentiment by giving to the world a different
code of morals for men and women by which moral
delinquencies which exclude women from society are not
only tolerated, but deemed of little account to man. He
has usurped the prerogative of Jehovah himself, claiming
it as his right to assign for her a sphere of action, when
that belongs to her conscience and to her God. He has
endeavored in every way that he could to destroy her
confidence in her own powers, to lessen her self-respect,
and to make her willing to lead a dependent and abject
life.
It was these conditions, which the feminists set out to
abolish a century ago, that made women what they were"feminine," as it was then, and is still, defined.
It is hardly a coincidence that the struggle to free woman
began in America on the heels of the Revolutionary War,
and grew strong with the movement to free the slaves. 1
Thomas Paine, the spokesman for the Revolution, was
among the first to condemn in 1775 the position of women
"even in countries where they may be esteemed the most
happy, constrained in their desires in the disposal of their
goods, robbed of freedom and will by the laws, the slaves
of opinion . . ." During the Revolution, some ten years
before Mary Wollstonecraft spearheaded the feminist
movement in England, an American woman, Judith Sargent Murray, said woman needed knowledge to envision
new goals and grow by reaching for them. In 1837, the year
Mount Holyoke opened its doors to give women their first
chance at education equal to man's, American women were
also holding their first national anti-slavery convention in
New York. The women who formally laun.ched the women's rights movement at Seneca Falls met each other when
they were refused seats at an anti-slavery convention in
London. Shut off behind a curtain in the gallery, Elizabeth

78

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Stanton, on her honeymoon, and Lucretia Mott, demure
mother of five, decided that it was not only the slaves who
needed to be liberated.
Whenever, wherever in the world there has been an upsurge of human freedom, women have won a share of it
for themselves. Sex did not fight the French Revolution,
free the slaves in America, overthrow the Russian Czar,
drive the British out of India; but when the idea of human
freedom moves the minds of men, it also moves the minds
of women. The cadences of the Seneca Falls Declaration
came straight from the Declaration of Independence:
When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one portion of the family of man to assume
among the people of the earth a position different from
that they have hitherto occupied. . . . We hold these
truths to be self-evident: that all men and women are
created equal.
Feminism was not a dirty joke. The feminist revolution
had to be fought because women quite simply were stopped
at a stage of evolution far short of their human capacity.
"The domestic function of woman does not exhaust her
powers," the Rev. Theodore Parker preached in Boston in
1853. "To make one half the human race consume its
energies in the functions of housekeeper, wife and mother
is a monstrous waste of the most precious material God
ever made." And running like a bright and sometimes dangerous thread through the history of the feminist movement
was also the idea that equality for woman was necessary to
free both man and woman for true sexual fulfillment.2
For the degradation of woman also degraded marriage,
love, all relations between man and woman. After the sexual revolution, said Robert Dale Owen, "then will the monopoly of sex perish with other unjust monopolies; and
women will not be restricted to one virtue, and one passion,
and one occupation."3
The women and men who started that revolution anticipated "no small amount of misconception, misrepresentation and ridicule." And they got it. The first to speak out
in public for women's rights in America-Fanny Wright,
daughter of a Scotch nobleman, and Ernestine Rose, daughter, of a rabbi-were called respectively, "red harlot of
infidelity" and "woman a thousand times below a prosti-

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

79

tute." The declaration at Seneca Falls brought such an outcry of "Revolution," "Insurrection Among Women," "The
Reign of Petticoats," "Blasphemy," from newspapers and
clergymen that the faint-hearted withdrew their signatures.
Lurid reports of "free love" and "legalized adultery" competed with phantasies of court sessions, church sermons
and surgical operations interrupted while a lady lawyer or
minister or doctor hastily presented her husband with a
baby.
At every step of the way, the feminists had to fight the
conception that they were violating the God-given nature
of woman. Clergyman interrupted women's-rights conventions, waving Bibles and quoting from the Scriptures:
"Saint Paul said . . . and the head of every woman is
man" . . . "Let your women be silent in the churches, for
it is not permitted unto them to speak" . . . "And if they
will learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home;
for it is a shame for women to speak in the church" . . .
"But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority
over the man, but to be in silence; for Adam was first
formed, then Eve" . . . "Saint Peter said: likewise, ye
wives, be in subjection to your own husbands" . . .
To give women equal rights would destroy that "milder
gentler nature, which not only makes them shrink from, but
disqualifies them for the turmoil and battle of public life,"
a Senator from New Jersey intoned piously in 1866. "They
have a higher and a holier mission. It is in retiracy to make
the character of coming men. Their mission is at home, by
their blandishments, and their love, to assuage the passions
of men as they come in from the battIe of life, and not
themselves by joining in the contest to add fuel to the very
flames."
"They do not appear to be satisfied with having unsexed
themselves, but they desire to unsex every female in the
land," said a New York assemblyman who opposed one of
the first petitions for a married woman's riiht to property
and earnings. Since "God created man as the representative
of the race," then "took from his side the material for
woman's creation" and returned her to his side in matrimonyas "one flesh, one being," the assembly smugly denied
the petition: "A higher power than that from which emanates legislative enactments has given forth the mandate
that man and woman shall not be equal."4
The myth that these women were "unnatural monsters"

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
80
was based on the belief that to destroy the God-given subservience of women would destroy the home and make
slaves of men. Such myths arise in every kind of revolution that advances a new portion of the family of man to
equality. The image of the feminists as inhuman, fiery maneaters, whether expressed as an offense against God or in
the modern terms of sexual perversion, is not unlike the
stereotype of the Negro as a primitive animal or the union
member as an anarchist. What the sexual terminology hides
is the fact that the feminist movement was a revolution.
Ther~ were excesses, of course, as in any revolution, but
the excesses of the feminists were in themselves a demonstration of the revolution's necessity. They stemmed from,
and were a passionate repudiation of, the degrading realities
of woman's life, the helpless subservience behind the gentle
decorum that made women objects of such thinly veiled
contempt to men that they even felt contempt for themselves. Evidently, that contempt and self-contempt were
harder to get rid of than the conditions which caused them.
Of course they envied man. Some of the early feminists
cut their hair short and wore bloomers, and tried to be like
men. From the lives they saw their mothers lead, from
their own experience, those passionate women had good
reason to reject the conventional image of woman. Some
even rejected marriage and motherhood for themselves. But
in turning their backs on the old feminine image, in fighting
to free themselves and all women, some of them became a
different kind of woman. They became complete human
beings.

The name of Lucy Stone today brings to mind a maneating fury, wearing pants, brandishing an umbrella. It took
a long time for the man who loved her to persuade her to
marry him, and though she loved him and kept his love
throughout her long life, she never took his name. When
she was born, her gentle mother cried: "Oh, dear! I am
sorry it is a girl. A woman's life is so hard." A few hours
before the baby came, this mother, on a farm in western
Massachusetts in 1818, milked eight cows because a sudden
thunderstorm had called all hands into the field: it was
more important to save the hay crop t~an to safeguard a
mother on the verge of childbirth. Though this gentle, tired
mother carried the endless work of farmhouse and bore
nine children, Lucy Stone grew up with the knowledge that

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

81

"There was only one will in our house, and that was my
father's."
She rebelled at being born a girl if that meant being as
lowly as the Bible said, as her mother said. She rebelled
when she raised her hand at church meeting and, time and
again, it was not counted. At a church sewing circle, where
she was making a shirt to help a young man through theological seminary, she heard Mary Lyon talk of education for
women. She left the shirt unfinished, and at sixteen started
teaching school for $1 a week, saving her earnings for nine
years, until she had enough to go to colleg~ herself. She
wanted to train herself "to plead not only for the slave,
but for suffering humanity everywhere. Especially do I
mean to labor for the elevation of my own sex." But at
Oberlin, where she was one of the first women to graduate
from the "regular course," she had to practice public speaking secretly in the woods. Even at Oberlin, the girls were
forbidden to speak in public.
Washing the men's clothes, caring for their rooms, serving them at table, listening to their orations, but themselves remaining respectfully silent in public assemblages,
the Oberlin "co-eds" were being prepared for intelligent
motherhood and a properly subservient wifehood. 5
In appearance, Lucy Stone was a little woman, with a
gentle, silvery voice which could quiet a violent mob. She
lectured on abolition Saturdays and Sundays, as an agent
for the Anti-Slavery Society, and for women's rights the
rest of the week on her own-facing down and winning
over men who threatened her with clubs, threw prayer
books and eggs at her head, and once in midwinter shoved
a hose through a window and turned icy water on her.
In one town, the usual report was circulated that a big,
masculine woman, wearing boots, smoking a cigar, swearing like a trooper, had arrived to lecture. The ladies who
came to hear this freak expressed their amazement to find
Lucy Stone, small and dainty, dressed in a black satin gown
with a white lace frill at the neck, "a prototype of womanly
grace . . . fresh and fair as the morning."6
Her voice so rankled pro-slavery forces that the Boston
Post published a rude poem promising "fame's loud trumpet shall be blown" for the man who "with a wedding kiss
shuts up the mouth of Lucy Stone." Lucy Stone felt that

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
82
"marriage is to a woman a state of slavery." Even after
Henry Blackwell had pursued her from Cincinnati to Massachusetts ("She was born locomotive," he complained),
and vowed to "repudiate the supremacy of either woman
or man in marriage," and wrote her: "I met you at Niagara
and sat at your feet by the whirlpool looking down into the
dark waters with a passionate and unshared and unsatisfied
yearning in my heart that you will never know, nor understand," and made a public speech in favor of women's
rights; even after she admitted that she loved him, and
wrote "You can scarcely tell me anything I do not know
about the emptiness of a single life," she suffered blinding
migraine headaches over the decision to marry him.
At their wedding, the minister Thomas Higginson reported that "the heroic Lucy cried like any village bride." The
minister also said: "I never perform the marriage ceremony
without a renewed sense of the iniquity of a system by
which man and wife are one, and that one is the husband."
And he sent to the newspapers, for other couples to copy,
the pact which Lucy Stone and Henry Blackwell joined
hands to make, before their wedding vows:

W4ile we acknowledge our mutual affection by publicly assuming the relationship of husband and wife . . .
we deem it a duty to declare that this act on our part
implies no sanction of, nor promise of voluntary obedience to such of the present laws of marriage as refuse to
recognize the wife as an independent, rational being, while they confer upon the husband an injurious and unnatural superiority.7
Lucy Stone, her friend, the pretty Reverend Antoinette
Brown, (who later married Henry's brother), Margaret
Fuller, Angelina Grimke, Abbey Kelley Foster-all resisted early marriage, and did not, in fact, marry until in their
battle against slavery and for women's rights they had begun to find an identity as women unknown to their mothers. Some, like Susan Anthony and Elizabeth Blackwell,
never married; Lucy Stone kept her own name in more
than symbolic fear that to become a wife was to die as a
person. The concept known as "femme couverte" (covered woman), written into the law, suspended the "very
being or legal existence of a woman" upon marriage. "To a

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

83

married woman, her new self is her superior, her companion, her master."
If it is true that the feminists were "disappointed women," as their enemies said even then, it was because almost
all women living under such conditions had reason to be
disappointed. In one of the most moving speeches of her
life, Lucy Stone said in 1855:
From the first years to which my memory stretches,
I have been a disappointed woman. When, with my
brothers, I reached forth after sources of knowledge, I
was reproved with "It isn't fit for you; it doesn't belong
to women" . • . In education, in marriage, in religion,
in everything, disappointment is the lot of woman. It
shall be the business of my life to deepen this disappointment in every woman's heart until she bows down to it no
longer.s
In her own lifetime, Lucy Stone saw the laws of almost
every state radically changed in regard to women, high
schools opened to them and two-thirds of the colleges in
the United States. Her husband and her daughter, Alice
Stone Blackwell, devoted their lives, after her death in
1893, to the unfinished battle for woman's vote. By the
end of her passionate journey, she could say she was glad
to have been born a woman. She wrote her daughter the
day before her seventieth birthday:
I trust my Mother sees and knows how glad I am to
have been born, and at a time when there was so much
that needed help at which I could lend a hand. Dear Old
Mother! She had a hard life, and was sorry she had another girl to share and bear the hard life of a woman.
••• But I am wholly glad that I came.9
In certain men, at certain times in history, the passion
for freedom has been as strong or stronger than the familiar
passions of sexual love. That this was so, for many of those
women who fought to free women, seems to be a fact, no
matter how the strength of that other passion is explained.
Despite the frowns and jeers of most of their husbands and
fathers, despite the hostility if not outright abuse they got
for their "unwomanly" behavior, the feminists continued

84

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

their crusade. They themselves were tortured by souIsearching doubts every step of the way. It was unladylike,
friends wrote Mary Lyon, to travel all over New England
with a green velvet bag, collecting money to start her college for women. "What do I do that is wrong?" she asked.
"I ride in the stage-coach or cars without an escort. . . .
My heart is sick, my soul is pained with this empty gentility,
this genteel nothingness. I am doing a great work, I cannot
COIne down."
The lovely Angelina Grimke felt as if she would faint,
when she accepted what was meant as a joke and appeared
to speak before the Massachusetts legislature on the antislavery petitions, the first women ever to appear before
a legislative body. A pastoral letter denounced her unwomanly behavior:
We invite your attention to the dangers which at present seem to threaten the female character with widespread and permanent injury. . . . The power of woman is her dependence, flowing from the consciousness of
that weakness which God has given her for her protection. . . . But when she assumes the place and tone of
man as a public reformer . . . her character becomes
unnatural. If the vine, whose strength and beauty is to
lean on the trellis-work and half conceal its cluster,
thinks to assume the independence and overshadowing
nature of the elm, it will not only cease to bear fruit,
but fall in shame and dishonor in the dust,lo
More than restlessness and frustration made her refuse
to be "shamed into silence," and made New England housewives walk two, four, six, and eight miles on winter evenings to hear her.
The emotional identification of American women with
the battle to free the slaves mayor may not testify to the
unconscious foment of their own rebellion. But it is an undeniable fact that, in organizing, petitioning, and speaking
out to free the slaves, American women learned how to
free themselves. In the South, where slavery kept women
at home, and where they did not get a taste of education
or pioneering work or the schooling battles of society, the
old image of femininity reigned intact, and there were few
feminists. In the North, women who took part in the Underground Railroad, or otherwise worked to free the slaves,

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

85

never were the same again. Feminism also went west with
the wagon trains, where the' frontier made women almost
equal from the beginning. (Wyoming was the first state to
give women the vote.) Individually, the feminists seem to
have had no more nor less reason than all women of their
time to envy or hate man. But what they did have was selfrespect, courage, strength. Whether they loved or hated
man, escaped or suffered humiliation from men in their
own lives, they identified with women. Women who accepted the conditions which degraded them felt contempt
for themselves and all women. The feminists who fought
those conditions freed themselves of that contempt and bad
less reason to envy man.
The call to that first Woman's Rights Convention came
about because an educated woman, who had already participated in shaping society as an abolitionist, came face to
face with the realities of a housewife's drudgery and isolation in a small town. Like the college graduate with six
children in the suburb of today, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
moved by her husband to the small town of Seneca Falls,
was restless in a life of baking, cooking, sewing, washing
and caring for each baby. Her husband, an abolitionist leader, was often away on business. She wrote:
I now understood the practical difficulties most women had to contend with in the isolated household and the
impossibility of woman's best development if in contact
the chief part of her life with servants and children. . • •
The general discontent I felt with woman's portion ..•
and the wearied, anxious look of the majority of women,
impressed me with the strong feeling that some active
measures should be taken. . . . I could not see what to
do or where to begin-my only thought was a public
meeting for protest and discussion.ll
She put only one notice in the newspapers, and housewives and daughters who had never known any other kind
of life came in wagons from a radius of fifty miles to hear
her speak.
However dissimilar their social or psychological roots, all
who led the battle for women's rights, early and late, also
shared more than common intelligence, fed by more than
common education for their time. Otherwise, whatever
their emotions, they would not have been able to see

86

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

through the prejudices which had justified woman's degradation, and to put their dissenting voice into words. Mary
Wollstonecraft educated herself and was then educated by
that company of English philosophers then preaching the
rights of man. Margaret Fuller was taught by her father to
read the classics of six languages, and was caught up in the
transcendentalist group around Emerson. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton's father, a judge, got his daughter the best education then available, and supplemented it by letting her listen
to his law cases. Ernestine Rose, the rabbi's daughter who
rebelled against her religion's doctrine that decreed woman's inferiority to man, got her education in "free thinking"
from the great utopian philosopher Robert Owen. She also
defied orthodox religious custom to marry a man she
loved. She always insisted, in the bitterest days of the fight
for women's rights, that woman's enemy was not man. "We
do not fight with man himself, but only with bad principles."
These women were not man-eaters. Julia Ward Howe,
brilliant and beautiful daughter of the 'New "York "400"
who studied intensively every field that interested her,
wrote the "Battle Hymn of the Republic" anonymously,
'because ber nusband believed her life should be devoted to
him and their six children. She.JQok..no part in the suffrage
.movement until 1868, when she met Lucy Stone, who "haL
long been flie object of one of my imaginary dislikes. As 1
100ke1f1ffio her sweet, womanly face and heard her earnest
voice, 1 felt that the object of my distaste had been a mere
phantom, conjured up by silly and senseless misrepresentations . . . . 1 could only say, 'I am with you.' "12
The irony of that man-eating myth is that the so-called
excesses of the feminists arose from their helplessness.
When women are considered to have no rights nor to deserve any, what can they do for themselves? At first, it
seemed there was nothing they could do but talk. They
held women's rights conventions every year after 1848, in
small towns and large. national and state conventions, over
and over again-in Ohio, prnnsylvania, Indiana, Massachusetts. They could ta'k ti'l doomsday about the rights
they did not have. B,'t how do women get legis'ators to let
them keep their own earnings, or their own children after
divorce, when they do not even have a vote? How can they
finance or organize a campaign to get the vote when they

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

87

have no money of their own, nor even the right to own
property?
The very sensitivity to opinion which such complete
dependence breeds in women made every step out of
their genteel prison a painful one. Even when they tried
to change conditions that were within their power to
change, they met ridicule. ~cal1ylmcomfo@ble
dress "ladies" YLore then was a symbol of their bondage:
stays so tightly laced tIley could hardly breathe, half a doz~ir!! and petticoats, wejghin,g ten t~e p.onnds,-so
l.Q!liJhe)'..8wept up refuse from the street. The specter of
the feminists taking the pants off men came partly from the
"Bloomer" dress-a tunic, knee-length skirt, ankle length
pantaloons. Elizabeth Stanton wore it, eagerly at first, to
do her housework in comfort, as a young woman today
might wear shorts or slacks . .Jiut-when thef.eminists,. wore
the Bloomer dress in public, as a symbol of their emancipation, the rude jokes, from newspaper editors, street corner loafers, and small boys, were unbearable to their feminine sensitivities. "We put the dress on for greater freedom,
but what is physical freedom compared to mental bondage," said Elizabeth Stanton and discarded her "Bloomer"
dress. Most, like Lucy Stone, stopped wearing it for a feminine reason: it was not very becoming, except to the extremely tiny, pretty Mrs. Bloomer herself.
Still, that helpless gentility had to be overcome, in the
minds of men, in the minds of other women, in their own
minds. When they decided to petition for married women's
rights to own property, half the time even the women
slammed doors in their faces with the smug remark that
'lhey1la(ll1usbands, they needed no laws to protect them.
When Susan Anthony and her women captains collected
6,000 signatures in ten weeks, the New York State Assembly received them with roars of laughter. In mockery, the
Assembly recommended that since ladies always get the
"choicest tidbits" at the table, the best seat in the carriage,
and their choice of which side of the bed to lie on, "if there
is any inequity or oppression the gentlemen are the sufferers." However, they would waive "redress" except where
both husband and wife had signed the petition. "In such
case, they would recommend the parties to apply for a law
authorizing them to change dresses, that the husband may
wear the petticoats and the wife the breeches."

aa

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

The wonder is that the feminists were able to win anything at all-that they were not embittered shrews but
increasingly zestful women who knew they were making history. There is more spirit than bitterness in Elizabeth Stanton, having babies into her forties, writing Susan Anthony
that this one truly will be her last, and the fun is just beginning-"Courage, Susan, we will not reach our prime until
we're fifty." Painfully insecure and self-conscious about her
looks-not because of treatment by men (she had suitors)
but because of a beautiful older sister and mother who
treated a crossed eye as a tragedy--Susan Anthony, of all
the nineteenth-century feminist leaders, was the only one
resembling the myth. She felt betrayed when the others
started to marry and have babies. But despite the chip on
her shoulder, she was no bitter spinster with a cat. Traveling alone from town to town, hammering up her meeting
notices, using her abilities to the fullest as organizer and
lobbyist and lecturer, she made her own way in a larger
and larger world.
In their own lifetime, such women changed the feminine
image that had justified woman's degradation. At a meeting while men jeered at trusting the vote to women so helpless that they had to be lifted over mud puddles and handed
into carriages, a proud feminist named Sojourner Truth
raised her black arm:
.
Look at my arm! I have ploughed and planted and
gathered into barns . . . and ain't I a woman? I could
work as much and eat as much as a man-when I could
get it-and bear the lash as well . . . I have borne thirteen children and seen most of 'em sold into slavery, and
when I cried out with my mother's grief, none but Jesus
helped me-and ain't I a woman?
That image of empty gentility was also undermined by
the growing thousands of women who worked in the red
brick factories: the Lowell mill girls who fought the terrible working conditions which, partly as a result of women's
supposed inferiority, were even worse for them than for
men. But those women, who after a twelve- or thirteenhour day in the factory still had household duties, could
not take the lead in the passionate journey. Most of the
leading feminists were women of the middle class, driven

--

-----

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

89

by a complex of motives to educate themselves and smash
that empty image.
What drove them on? "Must let out my pent-up energy
in some new way," wrote Louisa May Alcott in her journal
when she decided to volunteer as a nurse in the Civil War.
"A most interesting journey, into a new world, full of stirring sights and sounds, new adventures, and an ever-growing
sense of the great task I had undertaken. I said my prayers
as I went rushing through the country, white with tents, all
alive with patriotism, and already red with blood. A solemn
time, but I'm glad to live in it."
What drove them on? Lonely and racked with selfdoubt, plizabeth Blackwell, in that unheard-of. monstrou£
determinatIon to be a woman doctor, ignor,ed sniggersarnnenfafive passes-to do her anatomical dissections. She
battled.for the right to witness the dissection of the reproductive org~ but decided against wal~~g in the commencenu:nLproces~ because it would be unladylike.
Shunned even by her fellow physicians, she wrote:
I am woman as well as physician . . . I understand
now why this life has never been lived before. It is hard,
with no support but a high purpose, to live against every
species of social opposition . . . I should like a little fun
n\,w and then. Life is altogether too sober.13
--

--

In the course of a century of struggle, reality gave the lie
to the myth that woman would use her rights for vengeful
domination of man. As they won the right to equal education, the right to speak out in public and own property,
and the right to work at job or profession and control their
own earnings, the feminists felt less reason to be bitter
against man. But there was one more battle to be fought.
As M. Carey Thomas, the brilliant first president of Bryn
Mawr, said in 1908:

Women are one-half the world, but until a century
ago . . . women lived a twilight life, a half life apart,
and looked out and saw men as shadows walking. It was
a man's world. The laws were mer's laws, the government a man's government, the country a man's country.
Now women have won the right to higher edHcation and
economic independence.1I1e right 10oecome ciTizens of
"'---.

90

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the state is the next andJneYitable consequence of edu~d~l!p!De. We have gone so far;
we must go farther. We cannot go back. a
The trouble was, the women's rights movement had be~omealiiiOSnoo rc:!spectabl~~ yet without the right to vote,
women-coutd not get any political party to take them seriously. When Elizabeth Stanton's daughter, Harriet B1atch,
came home in 1907, the widow of an Englishman, she
found the movement in which her mother had raised her
in a sterile rut of tea and cookies. She had seen the tactics
women used in England to dramatize the issue in a similar
stalemate: heckling speakers at public meetings, deliberate
provocation of the police, hunger strikes in jail-~
of dramatic nonviolent resistance Ghandi used in Ingia. or
- that the Freedom Riders now use in the United States when
legal tactics leave segregation intact. JEe American femi~~tse~eve0ad tQJ'eS()fHe-the extreI1]es of their longer. n -against English counterparts. But they did dramatize
_thevote lSsue:lli'ttil-they aroused an opposition far more
p~ than the sexual one.
As theoattIe IO free women was fired by the battle to
free the slaves in the nineteenth century, it was fired in
the twentieth by the battles of social reform, of Jane Addams and Hull House, the rise of the union movement,
and the great strikes against intolerable working conditions
in the factories. For the Triangle Shirtwaist girls, working
for as little as $6 a week, as late as 10 o'clock at night,
fined for talking, laughing, or singing, equality was a question of more than education or the vote. They held out on
picket lines through bitter cold and hungry months; dozens
were clubbed by police and dragged off in Black Marias.
Tpe new feminists raised mo~y for the strikers' bail and
.<' "mod, as therr mothers had Iielped the Underground Rail-

roaa:-

,- Behind' the cries of "save femininity," "save the home,"
could now be glimpsed the influence of political machines,
quailing at the very thought of what those reforming women would do if they got the vote. ~ aftJ;.Lall. were
Jrying to shut down the saloons.-Brewers as well as other
6trsinesSiiiierests, especially those that depended on under--p31alal5Of of children and women, openly lobbied against
rthe'Woman's suffrage amendment in Washington. "Machine
men were plainly uncertam of their ability to control an

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

91

addition to the electorate which seemed to them relatively
unsusceptible to bribery, more militant and bent on disturbing reforms ranging from sewage control to the abolition of child labor and worst of all, 'cleaning up' politics."15
And Sout~ congressmen pointed out that suffrage for
women also meant Negro women.
-"!.Q~J!!lal battle for the vote was fought in the twentieth
century by the groWing numbers of college-trained women,
lea Oy Carrie Chapman Catt, daughter of the Iowa prairie,
educated at Iowa State, a teacher and a newspaperwoman,
whose husband, a successful engineer, firmly supported her
battles. One group that later called itself the Woman's Party
made continual headlines with picket lines around the
White House. After the outbreak of World War I, there
was much hysteria about women who chained themselves
to the White House fence. Maltreated by police and courts,
they went on hunger strikes in jail and were finally martyred by forced feeding. M~ of these women were Quak-,
ers and pacifists; but the majority oHhe feminists supporteo the war even as they continued their campaign for
. women~ Fights": They are hardly accountable for the myth
riffhe man-eating feminist which is prevalent today, a myth
that has cropped up continuously from the days of Lucy
Stone to the present, whenever anyone has reason to oppose women's move out of the home.
In this final battle, American women over a period of
fifty years conducted 56 campaigns of referenda to male
voters; 480 campaigns to get legislatures to submit suffrage
amendments to voters; 277 campaigns to get state party
conventions to include woman's suffrage planks; 30 campaigns to get presidential party conventions to adopt woman's suffrage planks, and 19 campaigns with 19 successive
Congresses. I6 Someone had to organize all those parades,
speeches, petitions, meetings, lobbying of legislators and
Congressmen. The new feminists.-were no longer a handful
of devoted women; thousands, millions of American wom~il with huwanas, children, and homes gave as much time
L~Y could-spare to the ca~The unpleasant image of
the femmists today resembles less the feminists themselves
than the image fostered by the interests who so bitterly op~ed thevofe Jor women in state after state, lobbying,
threatening legislators with business or political ruin, buying votes, even stealing them, unfil, and even after, 36 states
haaratinea the amendment:'

92

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

The ones who fought that battle won more than empty
paper rights. They cast off the shadow of contempt and
self-contempt that had degraded women for centuries. The
joy, the sense of excitement and the personal rewards of
that battle are described beautifully by Ida Alexa Ross Wylie, an English feminist:
To my astonishment, I found that women, in spite of
knock-knees and the fact that for centuries a respectable
woman's leg had not even been mentionable, could at a
pinch outrun the average London bobby. Their aim with
a little practice became good enough to land ripe vegetables in ministerial eyes, their wits sharp enough to keep
Scotland Yard running around in circles and looking very
silly. Their capacity for impromptu organization, for secrecy and loyalty, their iconoclastic disregard for class
and established order were a revelation to all concerned,
but especially themselves. . • .
(The day that, with a straight left to the jaw, I sent a
fair-sized eln officer into the orchestra pit of the theatre where we were holding one of our belligerent meetings, was the day of my own coming of age.!. . . Since
I was no genius, the episode could not malCe"'me one, but
it set me free to be whatever I was to the top of my
bent. . . .
For two years of wild and sometimes dangerous adventure, I worked and fought alongside vigorous, happy,
well-adjusted women who laughed instead of tittering,
who walked freely instead of teetering, who could outfast Ghandi and come out with a grin and a jest. I slept
on hard floors between elderly duchesses, stout cooks,
and young shopgirls. We were often tir~d, hurt and
frightened. But we were content as we had never been.
We shared a joy of life that we had never known. Most
of my fellow-fighters were wives and mothers. And
strange things happened to their domestic life. Husbands
came home at night with a new eagerness. . . . As for
children, their attitude changed rapidly from one of affectionate toleration for poor, darling mother to one of
wide-eyed wonder. Released from the smother of mother love, for she was too busy to be more than casually
concerned with them, they discovered that they liked
her. She was a great sport. She hael guts. . . . Those
women who stood outside the fight-l regret to say the

THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

93

vast majority-and who were being more than usually
Little Women, hated the fighters with the venomous rage
of envy .. .17
Did women really go borne again as a reaction to feminism? The fact is that to women born after 1920, feminism WliSlteaOJiistOIY. It ended as a vital mov_ement in
-AmeriCaWIih the winning of that final right: the vote. In
tne 1930's and 40's, the wrt of woman who fought for
woman's rights was still concerned with human rights and
freedom-for Negroes, for oppressed workers, for victims
of Franco's Spain and Hitler's Germany. ::;-~~t was
a all been
much concerned with rights for women: t
won. And yet the man-eating- myth prevailerl. Women who
displayea-any independence or initiative were called "Lucy
Stoners." "Feminist," like "career woman," became a dirty
word. The feminists had de~ro,)'e.d ~old image of woman, but they could not erase the hostility, the prejudice, -tIle
dlscrimmahon that sfiIIremained. Nor could they paint the
new image of what women might become when they grew
up under conditions that no longer made them inferior to
men, dependent, passive, incapable of thought or decision.
Most of the girls who grew up during the years when the
feminists were eliminating the causes of that denigrating
"genteel nothingness" got their image of woman from mothers still trapped in it. These mothers were probably the
real model for the man-eating myth. Th~hadQw_ 2L!he
contempt and self-contempt which cou1d turn a genfTe
h~!ldomineering~w .21so turned som~
tbJ:lLd!!..ughters mro angry ~Ies of myo. The first women
in business and tlie professions were thought to be freaks.
Insecure in their new freedom, some perhaps feared to be
soft or gentle, love, have children, lest they lose their prized
independence, lest they be trapped again as their mothers
were. They reinforced the myth.
But 1lleOaugliters who grew up with the rights thuerok
niSIs had won coulonot go back to tMLQkl image of genteel
IiOilliiigness; rrordtrH:l1ey have their aunts' or mothers' reasons to tie angry copies of man, or fear to love them. They
Iiad come unknowing to the turning-pornt in woman's identity. They bar;Ltruly outgrown the old image.;. they were
finally free to be what they chose to be. But what choice
were they offered? I!). thal corner, the fiery, man-eating
feminist, the career wOffiiiii:-loveTess, - alOne. In this cor-

......._ ----

94

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ner, the gentle wife and mother-loved and protected by
her .husband. ~unded by her adoring children. Though
many daughters continued on the passiOnate journey their
grandmothers had begun, thousands of others fell out-victims of a mistaken choice.
The reasons for their choice were, of course, more complex than the feminist myth. How did Chinese women, after having their feet bound for many generations, finally
discover they could run? The first women whose feet were
unbound must have felt such pain that some were afraid to
stand, let alone to walk or run. The more they walked, the
less their feet hurt. But what would have happened if, before a single generation of Chinese girls had grown up with
unbound feet, doctors, hoping to save them pain and distress, told them to bind their feet again? And teachers told
them that walking with bound feet was feminine, the only
way a woman could walk if she wanted a man to love her?
And scholars told them that they would be better mothers
if they could not walk too far away from their children?
And peddlers, discovering that women who could not walk
bought more trinkets, spread fables of the dangers of running and the bliss of being bound? Would many little Chinese girls, then, grow up wanting to have their feet securely
bound, never tempted to walk or run?
The real joke that history played on American women is
not the one thaI makes people snigger, with cheap Freudian
sophistication, at the dead feminists. It is q,e joke that
Freudian thought played on living women, twisting the
"memory of the feminists into the man-eating phantom of
the feminine mystique, shriveling the very wish to be more
than just a wife and mother. Encouraged by the mystique
to evade their identity crisis, permitted to escape identity
altogether in the name of sexual fulfllTme-nt, women once
-again-are living with their feet bound in the old image of
~d femininity And it is the same old image, despite its
shiny new clothes, that trapped women for centuries and
made the feminists rebel.

F I VE
THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM
OF SIGMUND FREUD
IT WOULD BE HALF-WRONG TO SAY IT STARTED WITH

Sigmund Freud. It did not really start, in America, until the
1940's. And then again, it was less a start than the prevention of an end. The old prejudices-women are animals,
less than human, unable to think like men, born merely
to breed and serve men-were not so easily dispelled by
the crusading feminists, by science and education, and by
the democratic spirit after all. They merely reappeared in
the forties, in Freudian disguise. The feminine mystique derived its power from Freudian thought; for it was an idea
born of Freud, which led women, and those who studied
them, to misinterpret their mothers' frustrations, and their
fathers' and brothers' and husbands' resentments and inadequacies, and their own emotions and possible choices
in life. It is a Freudian idea, hardened into apparent fact,
that has trapped so many American women today.
The new mystique is much more difficult for the modem woman to question than the old prejudices, partly because the mystique is broadcast by the very agents of education and social science that are supposed to be the chief
enemies of prejudice, partly because the very nature of
Freudian thought makes it virtually invulnerable to question. How can an educated American woman, who is not
herself an analyst, presume to question a Freudian truth?
She knows that Freud's discovery of the unconscious workings of the mind was one of the great breakthroughs in
man's pursuit of knowledge. She knows that the science
built on that discovery has helped many suffering men and
women. She has been taught that only after years of analytic training is one capable of understanding the meaning of
Freudian truth. She may even know how the human mind
unconsciously resists that truth. How can she presume to
tread the sacred ground where only analysts are allowed?
No one can question the basic genius of Freud's discoveries, nor the contribution he has made to our culture. Nor

96

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

do I question the effectiveness of psychoanalysis as it is
pracliced today by Freudian or anti-Freudian. But I do
question, from my own experience as a woman, and my
reporter's knowledge of other· women, the application of
the Freudian theory of femininity to women today. I question its use, not in therapy, but as it has filtered into the
lives of American women through the popular magazines
and the opinions and interpretations of so-called experts. I
think much of the Freudian theory about women is obsolescent, an obstacle to truth for women in America today,
and a major cause of the pervasive problem that has no
name.
There are many paradoxes here. Freud's concept of the
superego helped to free man of the tyranny of the
"shoulds," the tyranny of the past, which prevents the child
from becoming an adult. Yet Freudian thought helped create a new superego that paralyzes educated modem American women-a new tyranny of the "shoulds," which chains
women to an old image, prohibits choice and growth, and
denies them individual identity.
Freudian psychology, with its emphasis on freedom from
a repressive morality to achieve sexual fulfillment, was
part of the ideology of women's emancipation. The lasting
American image of the "emancipated woman" is the flapper
of the twenties: burdensome hair shingled off, knees bared,
flaunting her new freedom to live in a studio in Greenwich
Village or Chicago's near North Side, and drive a car, and
drink, and smoke and enjoy sexual adventures--or talk
about them. And yet today, for reasons far removed from
the life of Freud himself, Freudian thought has become the
ideological bulwark of the sexual counter-revolution in
America. Without Freud's definition of the sexual nature
of woman to give the conventional image of femininity new
authority, I do not think several generations of educated,
spirited American women would have been so easily diverted from the dawning realization of who they were and
what they could be.
The concept "penis envy," which Freud coined to describe a phenomenon he observed in women-that is, in
the middle-class women who were his patients in Vienna
in the Victorian era-was seized in this country in the
1940's as the literal explanation of all that was wrong with
American women. Many who preached the doctrine of endangered femininity, reversing the movement of American

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

97

women toward independence and identity, never knew its
Freudian origin. Many who seized on it-not the few psychoanalysts, but the many popularizers, sociologists, educators, ad-agency manipulators, magazine writers, child
experts, marriage counselors, ministers, cocktail-party authorities--could not have known what Freud himself meant
by penis envy. One needs only to know what Freud was
describing, in those Victorian women, to see the fallacy in
literally applying his theory of femininity to women today.
And one needs only to know why he described it in that
way to understand that much of it is obsolescent, contradicted by knowledge that is part of every social scientist's
thinking today, but was not yet known in Freud's time.
Freud, it is generally agreed, was a most perceptive and
accurate observer of important problems of the human
personality. But in describing and interpreting those problems, he was a prisoner of his own culture. As he was creating a new framework for our culture, he could not escape the framework o,f his own. Even his genius could not
give him, then, the knowledge of cultural processes which
men who are not geniuses grow up with today.
The physicist's relativity, which in recent years has
changed our- whole approach to scientific knowledge, is
harder, and therefore easier to understand than the social
scientist's relativity. It is not a slogan, but a fundamental
statement about truth to say that no social scientist can
completely free himself from the prison of his own culture;
he can only interpret what he observes in the scientific
fra.rnework of his own time. This is true even of the great
innovators. They cannot help but translate their revolutionary observations into language and rubrics that have been
determined by the progress of science up until their time.
Even those discoveries that create new rubrics are relative
to the vantage point of their creator.
The knowledge of other cultures, the understanding of
cultural relativity, which is part of the framework of social
scientists in our own time, was unknown to Freud. Much
of what Freud believed to be biological, instinctual, and
changeless has been shown by modern research to be a result of specific cultural causes. 1 Much of what Freud described as characteristic of universal human nature was
merely characteristic of certain middle-class European men
and women at the end of the nineteenth century.
For instance, Freud's theory of the sexual origin of neu-

98

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

rosis stems from the fact that many of the patients he first
observed suffered from hysteria-and in those cases, he
found sexual repression to be the cause. Orthodox Freudians still profess to believe in the sexual origin of all neurosis, and since they look for unconscious sexual memories in
their patients, and translate what they hear into sexual symbols, they still manage to find what they are looking for.
But the fact is, cases of hysteria as observed by Freud
are much more rare today. In Freud's time, evidently, cultural hypocrisy forced the repression of sex. (Some social
theorists even suspect that the very absence of other con- •
cerns, in that dying Austrian empire, caused the sexual preoccupation of Freud's patients.!!) Certainly the fact that
his culture denied sex focused Freud's interest on it. He
then developed his theory by describing all the stages of
growth as sexual, fitting all the phenomena he observed
into sexual rubrics.
His attempt to translate all psychological phenomena into sexual terms, and to see all problems of adult personality
as the effect of childhood sexual fixations also stemmed, in
part, from his own background in medicine, and from the
approach to causation implicit in the scientific thought of
his time. He had the same diffidence about dealing with
psychological phenomena in their own terms which often
plagues scientists of human behavior. Something that could
be described in physiological terms, linked to an organ of
anatomy, seemed more comfortable, solid, real, scientific,
as he moved into the unexplored country of the unconscious mind. As his biographer, Ernest Jones, put it, he
made a "desperate effort to cling to the safety of cerebral
anatomy."3 Actually, he had the ability to see and describe
psychological phenomena so vividly that whether his concepts were given names borrowed from physiology, philosophy or literature-penis envy, ego, Oedipus complexthey seemed to have a concrete physical reality. Psychological facts, as Jones said, were "as real and concrete to
him as metals are to a metallurgist."'" This ability became
a source of great confusion as his concepts were passed
down by lesser thinkers.
The whole superstructure of Freudian theory rests on
the strict determinism that characterized the scientific
thinking of the Victorian era. Determinism has been replaced today by a more complex view of cause and effect,
in terms of physical processes and phenomena as well as

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

99

psychological. In the new view, behavioral scientists do not
need to borrow language from physiology to explain psychological events, or give them pseudo-reality. Sexual phenomena are no more nor less real than, for instance, the
phenomenon of Shakespeare's writing Hamlet, which cannot exactly be "explained" by reducing it to sexual tefIllS.
Even Freud himself cannot be explained by his own deterministic, physiological blueprint, though his biographer
traces his genius, his "divine passion for knowledge" to an
insatiable sexual curiosity, before the age of three, as to
what went on between his mother and father in the bedroom. 5
Today biologists, social scientists, and increasing numbers of psychoanalysts see the need or impulse to human
growth as a primary human need, as basic as sex. The
"oral" and "anal" stages which Freud described in terms of
sexual development-the child gets his sexual pleasure first
by mouth, from mother's breast, tlien from his bowel
movements-are now seen as stages of human growth, influenced by cultural circumstances and parental attitudes
as well as by sex. When the teeth grow, the mouth can bite
as well as suck. Muscle and brain also grow; the child becomes capable of control, mastery, understanding; and his
need to grow and learn, at five, twenty-five, or fifty, can
be satisfied, denied, repressed, atrophied, evoked or discouraged by his culture as can his sexual needs.
Child specialists today confirm Freud's observation that
problems between mother and child in the earliest stages
are often played out in terms of eating; later in toilet training. And yet in America in recent years there has been a
noticeable decline in children's "eating problems." Has the
child's instinctual development changed? Impossible, if by
definition, the oral stage is instinctual. Or has the culture
removed eating as a focus for early childhood problemsby the American emphasis on permissiveness in child care,
or simply by the fact that in our affluent society food has
become less a cause for anxiety in mothers? Because of
Freud's own influence on our culture, educated parents are
usually careful not to put conflict-producing pressures on
toilet training. Such conflicts are more likely to occur today
as the child learns to talk or read. 6
In the 1940's, American social scientists and psychoanalysts had already begun to reinterpret Freudian concepts in
the light of their growing cultural awareness. But, curiously,

100

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

this did not prevent their literal application of Freud's
theory of femininity to American women.
The fact is that to Freud, even more than to the magazine editor on Madison Avenue today, women were a
strange, inferior, less-than-human species. He saw them as
childlike dolls, who existed in terms only of man's love, to
love man and serve his needs. It was the same kind of unconscious solipsism that made man for many centuries see
the sun only as a bright object that revolved around the
earth. Freud grew up with this attitude built in by his culture-not only the culture of Victorian Europe, but that
Jewish culture in which men said the daily prayer: "I thank
Thee, Lord, that Thou hast not created me a woman," and
women prayed in submission: "I thank Thee, Lord, that
Thou has created me accordin~ to Thy will."
Freud's mother was the pretty, docile bride of a man
twice her age; his father ruled the family with an autocratic
authority traditional in Jewish families during those centuries of persecution when the fathers were seldom able to
establish authority in the outside world. His mother adored
the young Sigmund, her first son, and thought him mystically destined for greatness; she seemed to exist only to
gratify his every wish. His own memories of the sexual jealousy he felt for his father, whose wishes she also gratified,
were the basis of this theory of the Oedipus complex. With
his wife, as with his mother and sisters, his needs, his desires, his wishes, were the sun around which the household
revolved. When the noise of his sisters' practicing the piano
interrupted his studies, "the piano disappeared," Anna
Freud recalled years later, "and with it all opportunities for
his sisters to become musicians."
Freud did not see this attitude as a problem, or cause
for any problem, in women. It was woman's nature to be
ruled by man, and her sickness to envy him. Freud's letters
to Martha, his future wife, written during the four years of
their engagement (1882-1886) have the fond, patronizing
sound of Torvald in A Doll's House, scolding Nora for her
pretenses at being human. Freud was beginning to probe the
secrets of the human brain in the laboratory at Vienna;
Martha was to wait, his "sweet child," in her mother's custody for four years, until he could come and fetch her.
From these letters one can see that to him her identity was
defined as child-housewife, even when she was no longer a
child and not yet a housewife.

I

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

101

Tables and chairs, beds, mirrors, a clock to remind
the happy couple of the passage of time, an armchair for
an hour's pleasant daydreaming; carpets to help the
housewife keep the floors clean, linen tied with pretty
ribbons in the cupboard and dresses of the latest fashion
and hats with artificial flowers, pictures on the wall,
glasses for everyday and others for wine and festive occasions, plates and dishes . . . and the sewing table and
the cozy lamp, and everything must be kept in good order
or else the housewife who has divided her heart into little
bits, one for each piece of furniture, will begin to fret.
And this object must bear witness to the serious work
that holds the household together, and that object, to a
feeling for beauty, to dear friends one likes to remember,
to cities one has visited, to hours one wants ' to recall.
• . . Are we to hang our hearts on such little things? Yes,
and without hesitation. . . .
I know, after all, how sweet you are, how you can
tum a house into a paradise, how you will share in my
interests, how gay yet painstaking you will be. I will let
you rule the house as much as you wish, and you will
reward me with your sweet love and by rising above all
those weaknesses for which women are so often despised.
As far as my activities allow, we shall read together what
we want to learn, and I will initiate you into things which
could not interest a girl as long as she is unfamiliar with
her future companion and his occupation. . .7
On July 5, 1885, he scolds her for continuing to visit
Elise, a friend who evidently is less than demure in her regard for men:
What is the good of your feeling that you are now so
mature that this relationship can't do you any harm?
. . . You are far too soft, and this is something I have
-got to correct, for what one of us does will also be
charged to the other's account. You are my precious little woman and even if you make a mistake, you are
none the less so. • • • But you know all this, my sweet
child . . .8
The Victorian mixture of chivalry and condescension
which is found in Freud's scientific theories about women
i~ explicit in a letter he wrote on November 5, 1883, de-

102

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

riding John Stuart Mills' views on "female emancipation
and the woman's question altogether."
In his whole presentation, it never emerges that women are different beings-we will not say lesser, rather the
opposite-from men. He finds the suppression of women an analogy to that of Negroes. Any girl, even without
a suffrage or legal competence, whose hand a man kisses
and for whose love he is prepared to dare all, could have
set him right. It is really a stillborn thought to send women into the struggle for existence exactly as man. If, for
instance, I imagined my gentle sweet girl as a competitor,
it would only end in my telling her, as I did seventeen
months ago, that I am fond of her and that I implore
her to withdraw from the strife into the calm, uncompetitive activity of my home. It is possible that changes
in upbringing may suppress all a woman's tender attributes, needful of protection and yet so victorious, and
that she can then earn a livelihood like men. It is also
possible that in such an event one would not be justified
in mourning the passing away of the most delightful thing
the world can offer us--our ideal of womanhood. I believe that all reforming action in law and education
would break down in front of the fact that, long before
the age at which a man can earn a position in society,
Nature has determined woman's destiny through beauty,
charm, and sweetness. Law and custom have much to
give women that has been withheld from them, but the
position of women will surely be what it is: in youth an
adored darling and in mature years a loved wife. 9
Since all of Freud's theories rested, admittedly, on his
own penetrating, unending psychoanalysis of himself, and
since sexuality -was the focus of all his theories, certain
paradoxes about his own sexuality seem pertinent. His
writings, as many scholars have noted, give much more
attention to infantile sexuality than to its mature expression. His chief biographer, Jones, pointed out that he was,
even for those times, exceptionally chaste, puritanical and
moralistic. In his own life, he was relatively uninterested in
sex. There were only the adoring mother of his youth, at
sixteen ' a romance that existed purely in fantasy with a girl
named Gisele, and his engagement to Martha at twentysix. The nine months when they both lived in Vienna were

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

103

not too happy because she was, evidently, uneasy and
afraid of him; but separated by a comfortable distance for
four years, there was a "grande passion" of 900 love letters. After their marriage, the passion seems to have quickly disappeared, though his biographers note that he was too
rigid a moralist to seek sexual satisfaction outside of marriage. The only woman on whom, as an adult, he ever focused the violent passions of love and hate of which he
was capable was Martha, during the early years of their
engagement. After that, such emotions were focused on
men. As Jones, his respectful biographer, said: "Freud's
deviation from the average in this respect, as well as his
pronounced mental bisexuality, may well have influenced
his theoretical views to some extent."lO
Less reverent biographers, and even Jones himself, point
out that when one considers Freud's theories in terms of
his own life, one is reminded of the puritanical old maid
who sees sex everywhere. l l It is interesting to note that
his main complaint about his docile hausfrau was that she
was not "docile" enough-and yet, in interesting ambivalence, that she was not "at her ease" with him, that she was
not able to be a "comrade-in-arms."
But, as Freud was painfully to discover, she was not
at heart docile and she had a firmness of character that
did not readily lend itself to being molded. Her personality was fully developed and well integrated: it would well
deserve the psychoanalyst's highest compliment of being
"normal. "12
One gets a glimpse of Freud's "intention, never to be fulfilIed, to mold her to his perfect image," when he wrote
her that she must "become quite young, a sweetheart, only
a week old, who will quickly lose every trace of tartness."
But he then reproaches himself:
The loved one is not to become a toy doll, but a good
comrade who still has a sensible word left when the strict
master has come to the end of his wisdom. And I have
been trying to smash her frankness so that she should
reserve opinion until she is sure of mine. 13
As Jones pointed out, Freud was pained when she did
not meet his chief test-"complete identification with him-

104

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

self, his opinions, his feelings, and his intentions. She was
not really his unless he could perceive his 'stamp' on her."
Freud "even admitted that it was boring if one could find
nothing in the other person to put right." And he stresses
again that Freud's love "could be set free and displayed
only under very favorable conditions. . .. Martha was
probably afraid of her masterful lover and she would commonly take refuge in silence."14
So, he eventually wrote her, "I renounce what I demanded. I do not need a comrade-in-arms, such as I hoped to
make you into. I am strong enough to fight alone. . . .
You remain for me a precious sweet, loved one."15 Thus
evidently ended "the only time in his life when such emotions [love and hate] centered on a woman."16
The marriage was conventional, but without that pas· sion. As Jones described it:
There can have been few more successful marriages.
Martha certainly made an excellent wife and mother.
She was an admirable manager-the rare kind of woman who could keep servants indefinitely-but she was
never the kind of Hausfrau who put things before people. Her husband's comfort and convenience always
ranked first. . . . It was not to be expected that she
should follow the roaming flights of his imagination any
more than most of the world could.17
She was as devoted to his physical needs as the most doting
Jewish mother, organizing each meal on a rigid schedule to
fit the convenience of "der Papa." But she never dreamed
of sharing his life as an equal. Nor did Freud consider her a
fit guardian for their children, especially of their education,
in case of his death. He himself recalls a dream in which
he forgets to call for her at the theater. His associations
"imply that forgetting may be permissible in unimportant
matters."18
That limitless subservience of woman taken for granted
by Freud's culture, the very lack of opportunity for independent action or personal identity, seems often to have
generated that uneasiness and inhibition in the wife, and
that irritation in the husband, which characterized Freud's
marriage. As Jones summed it up, Freud's attitude toward
women "could probably be called rather old-fashioned, and

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

105

it would be easy to ascribe this to his social environment
and the period in which he grew up rather than to any personal factors."
Whatever his intellectual opinions may have been in
the matter, there are many indications in his writing and
correspondence of his emotional attitude. It would certainly be going too far to say that he regarded the male
sex as the lords of creation, for there was no tinge of '
arrogance or superiority in his nature, but it might perhaps be fair to describe his view of the female sex as
having as their main function to be ministering angels to
the needs and comforts of men. His letters and his love
choice make it plain that he had only one type of sexual
object in his mind, a gentle feminine one. . . .
There is little doubt that Freud found the psychology
of women more enigmatic than that of men. He said
once to Marie Bonaparte: "The great question that has
never been answered and which I have not yet been able
to answer, despite my thirty years of research into the
feminine soul, is, what does a woman want?"19
Jones also remarked:
Freud was also interested in another type of woman,
of a more intellectual and perhaps masculine cast. Such
women several times played a part in his life, accessory
to his men friends though of a finer caliber, but they
had no erotic attraction for him.20
These women included his sister-in-law, Minna Bernays,
much more intelligent and independent than Martha, and
later women analysts or adherents of the psychoanalytic
movement: Marie Bonaparte, Joan Riviere, Lou AndreasSalome. There is no suspicion, however, from either idollltors or hostile biographers that he ever sought sexual satisfaction outside his marriage. Thus it would seem that sex
was completely divorced from his human passions, which
he expressed throughout the productive later years of his
long life in his thought and, to a lesser extent, in friendships
with men and those women he considered his equals, and
thus "masculine." He once said: "I always find it uncanny
when I can't understand someone in terms of myself."21

106

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Despite the importance of sex in Freud's theory, one
gets from his words the impression that the sex act appeared degrading to him; if women themselves were so degraded, in the eyes of man, how could sex appear in any
other light? That was not his theory, of course. To Freud,
it was the idea of incest with mother or sister that makes
man "regard the sex act as something degrading, which soils
and contaminates not only the body. "22 In any event, the
degradation of women was taken for granted by Freudand is the key to his theory of femininity. The motive force
of woman's personality, in Freud's theory, was her envy of
the penis, which causes her to feel as much depreciated in
her own eyes "as in the eyes of the boy, and later perhaps
of the man," and leads, in normal femininity, to the wish
for the penis of her husband, a wish that is never really fulfilled until she possesses a penis through giving birth to a
son. In short, she is merely an "homme manque," a man
with something missing. As the eminent psychoanalyst Clara
Thompson put it: "Freud never became free from the Victorian attitude toward women. He accepted as an inevitable part of the fate of being a woman the limitation of
outlook and life of the Victorian era. . . . The castration
complex and penis envy concepts, two of the most basic
ideas in his whole thinking, are postulated on the assumption that women are biologically inferior to men."23
What did Freud mean by the concept of penis envy? For
even those who realize that Freud could not escape his culture do not question that he reported truly what he observed within it. Freud found the phenomenon he called
penis envy so unanimous, in middle-class women in Vienna,
in that Victorian time, that he based his whole theory of
femininity on it. He said, in a lecture on "The Psychology
of Women":
In the boy the castration-complex is formed after he
has learned from the sight of the female genitals that the
sexual organ which he prizes so highly is not a necessary
part of every woman's body . . . and thenceforward he
comes under the influence of castration-anxiety, which
supplies the strongest motive force for his further development. The castration-complex in the girl, as well, is
started by the sight of the genital organs of the other sex.
She immediately notices the difference and, it must be

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

107

admitted, its significance. She feels herself at a great
disadvantage, and often declares that she would like to
have something like that too and falls a victim to penis
envy, which leaves ineradicable traces on her development and character-formation, and even in the most favorable instances, is not overcome without a great expenditure of mental energy. That the girl recognizes the
fact that she lacks a penis does not mean that she accepts its absence lightly. On the contrary, she clings for a
long time to the desire to get something like it, and believes in that possibility for an extraordinary number of
years; and even at a time when her knowledge of reality
has long since led her to abandon the fulfillment of this
desire as being quite unattainable, analysis proves that it
still persists in the unconscious, and retains a considerable charge of energy. The desire after all to obtain the
penis for which she so much longs may even contribute
to the motives that impel a grown-up woman to come to
analysis, and what she quite reasonably expects to get
from analysis, such as the capacity to pursue an intellectual career, can often be recognized as a sublimated
modification of this repressed wish. 2,j,
"The discovery of her castration is a turning-point in the
life of the girl," Freud went on to say. "She is wounded in
her self-love by the unfavorable comparison with the boy,
who is so much better equipped." Her mother, and all
women, are depreciated in her own eyes, as they are depreciated for the same reason in the eyes of man. This either leads to complete sexual inhibition and neurosis, or to
a "masculinity complex" in which she refuses to give up
"phallic" activity (that is, "activity such as is usually characteristic of the male") or to "normal femininity," in which
the girl's own impulses to activity are repressed, and she
turns to her father in her wish for the penis. "The feminine
situation is, however, only established when the wish for
the penis is replaced by the wish for a child-the child taking the place of the penis." When she played with dolls, this
"was not really an expression of her femininity," since this
was activity, not passivity. The "strongest feminine wish,"
the desire for a penis, finds real fulfillment only "if the
child is a little boy, who brings the longed-for penis with
him. • . . The mother can transfer to her son all the am-

108

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

bition she has had to suppress in herself, and she can hope
to get from him the satisfaction of all that has remained to
her of her masculinity complex."25
But her inherent deficiency, and the resultant penis envy, is so hard to overcome that the woman's superego-her conscience, ideals-are never as completely formed as
a man's: "women have but little sense of justice, and this is
no doubt connected with the preponderance of envy in
their mental life." For the same reason, women's interests
in society are weaker than those of men, and "their capacity for the sublimation of their instincts is less." Finally,
Freud can not refrain from mentioning "an impression
which one receives over and over again in analytical work"
-that not even psychoanalysis can do much for women,
because of the inherent deficiency of femininity.
A man of about thirty seems a youthful, and, in a
sense, an incompletely developed individual, of whom
we expect that he will be able to make good use of the
possibilities of development, which analysis lays open to
him. But a woman of about the same age, frequently
staggers us by her psychological rigidity and unchangeability. . . . There are no paths open to her for further
development; it is as though the whole process had been
gone through and remained unaccessible to influence for
the future; as though, in fact, the difficult development
which leads to femininity had exhausted all the possibilities of the individual . . . even when we are successful in removing the &ufferings by solving her neurotic confliCt. 26

What was he really reporting? If one interprets "penis
envy" as other Freudian concepts have been reinterpreted,
in the light of our new knowledge that what Freud believed
to be biological was often a cultural reaction, one sees simply that Victorian culture gave women many reasons to
envy men: the same conditions, in fact, that the feminists
fought against. If a woman who was denied the freedom,
the status and the pleasures that men enjoyed wished secretly that she could have these things, in the shorthand of the
dream, she might wish herself a man and see herself with
that one thing which made men unequivocally differentthe penis. She woul~, of course, have to learn to keep her
envy, her anger, hidden: to play the child, the doll, the toy,

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

109

for her destiny depended on charming man. But underneath, it might still fester, sickening her for love. If she
secretly despised herself, and envied man for all she was
not, she might go through the motions of love, or even feel
a slavish adoration, but would she be capable of free and
joyous love? You cannot explain away woman's envy of
man, or her contempt for herself, as mere refusal to accept her sexual deformity, unless you think that a woman,
by nature, is a being inferior to man. Then, of course, her
wish to be equal is neurotic.
It is recognized now that Freud never gave proper attention, even in man, to growth of the ego or self: "the
impulse to master, control or come to self-fulfilling terms
with the environment."27 Analysts who have freed themselves from Freud's bias and joined other behavioral scientists in studying the human need to grow, are beginning to
believe that this is the basic human need, and that interference with it, in any dimension, is the source of psychic
trouble. The sexual is only one dimension of the human potential. Freud, it must be remembered, thought all neuroses
were sexual in origin; he saw women only in terms of their
sexual relationship with men. But in all those women in
whom he saw sexual problems, there must have been very
severe problems of blocked growth, growth short of full human identity-an immature, incomplete self. Society as it
was then, by explicit denial of education and independence,
prevented women from realizing their full potential, or
from attaining those interests and ideals that might have
stimulated their growth. Freud reported these deficiencies,
but could only explain them as the toll of "penis envy." He
saw women's envy of man only as sexual sickness. He saw
that women who secretly hungered to be man's equal would
not enjoy being his object; and in this, he seemed to be
describing a fact. But when he dismissed woman's yearning
for equality as "penis envy," was he not merely stating his
own view that women could never really be man's equal,
anymore than she could wear his penis?
Freud was not concerned with changing society, but in
helping man, and woman, adjust to it. Thus he tells of a
case of a middle-aged spinster whom he succeeded in freeing from a symptom-complex that prevented her from taking any part in life for fifteen years. Freed of these symptoms she "plunged into a whirl of activity in order to
develop her talents, Which, were by no means small, and de-

110

- THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

rive a little appreciation, enjoyment, and success from life
before it was too late." But all her attempts ended when
she saw that there was no place for her. Since she could no
longer relapse into her neurotic symptoms, she began to
have accidents; she sprained her ankle, her foot, her hand.
When this also was analyzed, "instead of accidents, she
contracted on the same occasions slight illnesses, such as
catarrh, sore throat, influenzal conditions or rheumatic
swellings, until at last, when she made up her mind to resign herself to inactivity, the whole business came to an
end."28
Even if Freud and his contemporaries considered women inferior by God-given, irrevocable nature, science does
not justify such a view today. That inferiority, we now
know, was caused by their lack of education, their confinement to the home. Today, when women's equal intelligence has been proved by science, when their equal capacity in-every sphere except sheer muscular strength has been
demonstrated, a theory explicitly based on woman's natural inferiority would seem as ridiculous as it is hypocritical. But that remains the basis of Freud's theory of
women, despite the mask of timeless sexual truth which
disguises its elaborations today.
Because Freud's followers could only see woman in the
image defined by Freud-inferior, childish, heIpless, with
no possibility of happiness unless she adjusted to being
man's passive object,-they wanted to help women get rid
of their suppressed envy, their neurotic desire to be equal.
They wanted to help women find sexual fulfillment as
women, by affirming their natural inferiority.
But soCiety, which defined that inferiority, had changed
drastically by the time Freud's followers transposed bodily
to twentieth century America the causes as well as the
cures of the condition Freud called penis envy. In the light
of our new knowledge of cultural processes and of human
growth, one would assume that women who grew up with
the rights and freedom and education that Victorian women were denied would be different from the women Freud
tried to cure. One would assume that they would have
much less reason to envy man. But Freud was interpreted
to American woman in such curiously literal terms that the
concept of penis envy acquired a mystical life of its own,
as if it existed quite independent of the women in whom it
had been observed. It was as if Freud's Victorian image of

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

111

woman became more real than the twentieth-century women to whom it was applied. Freud's theory of femininity
was seized in America with such literalness that women today were considered no different than Victorian women.
The real injustices life held for women a century ago, compared to men, were dismissed as mere rationalizations of
penis envy. And the real opportunities life offered to women now, compared to women then, were forbidden in the
name of penis envy.
The literal application of Freudian theory can be seen
in these passages from Modern Woman: The Lost Sex, by
the psychoanalyst Marynia Farnham and the sociologist
Ferdinand Lundberg, which was paraphrased ad nauseam
in the magazines and in marriage courses, until most of its
statements became a part of the conventional, accepted
truth of our time. Equating feminism with penis envy, they
stated categorically:
Feminism, despite the external validity of its political
...program and most (not all) of its social program, was
at its core a deep illness. . . . The dominant direction
of feminine training and development today . . . discourages just those traits necessary to the attainment of
sexual pleasure: receptivity and passiveness, a willingness
to accept dependence without fear or resentment, with a
deep inwardness and readiness for the final goal of sexuallife--impregnation. . . .
It is not in the capacity of the female organism to attain feelings of well-being by the route of male achievement. . . . It was the error of the feminists that they
attempted to put women on the essentially male road of
exploit, off the female road of nurture. . . .
The psychosocial rule that begins to take form, then,
is this: the more educated the woman is, the greater
chance there is of sexual disorder, more or less severe.
The greater the disordered sexuality in a given group of
women, the fewer children do they have. . . . Fate has
granted them the boon importuned by Lady Macbeth;
they have been unsexed, not only in the matter of giving
birth, but in their feelings of pleasure. 29
Thus Freud's popularizers embedded his core of unrecognized traditional prejudice against women ever deeper in
pseudoscientific cement. Freud was well aware of his own

112

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

tendency to build an enormous body of deductions from a
single fact-a fertile and creative method, but a two-edged
sword, if the significance of that single fact was misinterpreted. Freud wrote Jung in 1909:
Your surmise that after my departure my errors might
be adored as holy relics amused me enormously, but I
don't believe it. On the contrary, I think that my followers will hasten to demolish as swiftly as possible everything that is not safe and sound in what I leave behind. ao
But on the subject of women, Freud's followers not only
compounded his errors, but in their tortuous attempt to fit
their observations of real women into his theoretical framework, closed questions that he himself had left open. Thus,
for instance, Helene Deutsch, whose definitive two-volume
The Psychology of Woman-A Psychoanalytical Interpretation appeared in 1944, is not able to trace all women's
troubles to penis envy as such. So she does what even Freud
found unwise, and equates "femininity" with "passivity,"
and "masculinity" with "activity," not only in the sexual
sphere, but in all spheres of life.
While fully recognizing that woman's position is subjected to external influence, I venture to say that the
fundamental identities "feminine-passive" and "masculine-active" assert themselves in all known cultures and
races, in various forms and various quantitative proportions.
Very often a woman resists this characteristic given
her by nature and in spite of certain advantages she de-rives from it, displays many modes of behavior that suggest that she is not entirely content with her own constitution . . . the expression of this dissatisfaction, combined with attempts to remedy it, result in woman's
"masculinity complex."Sl
The "masculinity complex," as Dr. Deutsch refines it,
stems directly from the "female castration complex." Thus,
anatomy is still destiny, woman is still an "homme
manque." Of course, Dr. Deutsch mentions in passing that
"With regard to the girl, however, the environment exerts
an inhibiting influence as regards both her aggressions and

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

113

her activity." So, penis envy, deficient female anatomy,
and society "all seem to work together to produce femininity."32
"Normal" femininity is achieved, however, only insofar
as the woman finally renounces all active goals of her own,
all her own "originality," to identify and fulfill herself
through the activities and goals of husband, or son. This
process can be sublimated in nonsexual ways-as, for instance, the woman who does the basic research for her
male superior's discoveries. The daughter who devotes her
life to her father is also making a satisfactory feminine
"sublimation." Only activity of her own or originality, on a
basis of equality, deserves the opprobrium of "masculinity
complex." This brilliant feminine follower of Freud states
categorically that the women who by 1944 in America had
achieved eminence by activity of their own in various fields
had done so at the expense of their feminine fulfillment.
She will mention no names, but they all suffer from the
"masculinity complex."
How could a girl or woman who was not a psychoanalyst
discount such ominous pronouncements, which, in the forties, suddenly began to pour out from all the oracles of
sophisticated thought?
It would be ridiculous to suggest that the way Freudian
theories were used to brainwash two generations of educated American women was part of a psychoanalytic conspiracy. It was done by well-meaning popularizers and inadvertent distorters; by orthodox converts and bandwagon
faddists; by those who suffered and those who cured and
those who turned suffering to profit; and, above all, by a
congruence of forces and needs peculiar to the American
people at that particular time. In fact, the literal acceptance in the American culture of Freud's theory of feminine fulfiIlment was in tragicomic contrast to the personal
struggle of many American psychoanalysts to reconcile
what they saw in their women patients with Freudian theory. The theory said women should be able to fulfill themselves as wives and mothers if only they could be analyzed
out of their "masculine strivings," their "penis envy." But
it wasn't as easy as that. "I don't know why American
women are so dissatisfied," a Westchester analyst insisted.
"Penis envy seems so difficult to eradicate in American
women, somehow."

114

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

A New York analyst, one of the last trained at Freud's
own Psychoanalytic Institute in Vienna, told me:
For twenty years now in analyzing American women,
I have found myself again and again in the position of
having to superimpose Freud's theory of femininity on
the psychic life of my patients in a way that I was not
willing to do. I have come to the conclusion that penis
envy simply does not exist. I have seen women who are
completely expressive, sexually, vaginally, and yet who
are not mature, integrated, fulfilled. I had a woman patient on the couch for nearly two years before I could
face her real problem-that it was not enough for her to
be just a housewife and mother. One day she had a
dream that she was teaching a class. I couid not dismiss
the powerful yearning of this housewife's dream as penis
envy. It was the expression of her own need for mature
self-fulilllment. I told her: "I can't analyze this dream
away. You must do something about it."
This same man teaches the young analysts in his postgraduate clinicum at a leading Eastern university: "If the patient
doesn't fit the book, throwaway the book, and listen to the
patient."
But many analysts threw the book at their patients and
Freudian theories became accepted fact even among women who never lay down on an analyst's couch, but only
knew what they read or heard. To this day, it has not penetrated to the popular culture that the pervasive growing
frustration of American women may not be a matter of
feminine sexuality. Some analysts, it is true, modified the
theories drastically to fit their patients, or even discarded
them altogether-but these facts never permeated the public awareness. Freud was accepted so quickly and completely at the end of the forties that for over a decade no
one even questioned the race of the educated American
woman back to the home. When questions finally had to
be asked because something was obviously going wrong,
they were asked so completely within the Freudian framework that only one answer was possible: education, freedom, rights are wrong for women.
The uncritical acceptance of Freudian doctrine in America was caused, at least in part, by the very relief it provided from uncomfortable questions about objective realities.

THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF SIGMUND FREUD

115

After the depression, after the war, Freudian psychology
became much more than a science of human behavior,
a therapy for the suffering. It became an all-embracing
American ideology, a new religion. It filled the vacuum of
thought and purpose that existed for many for whom God,
or flag, or bank account were no longer sufficient-and yet
who were tired of feeling responsible for lynchings and concentration camps and the starving children of India and
Africa. It provided a convenient escape from the atom
bomb, McCarthy, all the disconcerting problems that might
spoil the taste of steaks, and cars and color television and
backyard swimming pools. It gave us permission to suppress
the troubling questions of the larger world and pursue our
own personal pleasures. And if the new psychological religion-which made a virtue of sex, removed all sin from
private vice, and cast suspicion on high aspirations of the
mind and spirit-had a more devastating personal effect on
women than men, nobody planned it that way.
Psychology, long preoccupied with its own scientific inferiority complex, long obsessed with neat little laboratory
experiments that gave the illusion of reducing human complexity to the simple measurable behavior of rats in a maze,
was transformed into a life-giving crusade that swept across
the barren fields of American thought. Freud was the spiritual leader, his theories were the bible. And how exciting
and real and important it all was. Its mysterious complexity was part of its charm to bored Americans. And if some
of it remained impenetrably mystifying, who would admit
that he could not understand it? America became the center of the psychoanalytic movement, as Freudian, Jungian
and Adlerian analysts fled from Vienna and Berlin and
new schools flourished on the multiplying neuroses, and dollars, of Americans.
But the practice of psychoanalysis as a therapy was not
primarily responsible for the feminine mystique. It was the
creation of writers and editors in the mass media, adagency motivation researchers, and behind them the popularizers and translators of Freudian thought in the colleges
and universities. Freudian and pseudo-Freudian theories
settled everywhere, like fine volcanic ash. Sociology, anthropology, education, even the study of history amI literature became permeated and transfigured by Freudian
thought. The most zealous missionaries of the feminine
mystique were the functionalists, who seized hasty gulps of

116

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

predigested Freud to start their new departments of "Marriage and Family Life Education." The functional courses
in marriage taught American college girls how to "play the
role" of woman-the old role became a new science. Related movements outside the colleges-parent education,
child-study groups, prenatal maternity study groups and
mental-health education-spread the new psychological
superego throughout the land, replacing bridge and canasta
as an entertainment for educated young wives. And this
Freudian superego worked for growing numbers of young
and impressionable American women as Freud said the
superego works-to perpetuate the past.
Mankind never lives completely in the present; the
ideologies of the superego _perpetuate the past, the traditions of the race and the people, which yield but slowly
to the influence of the present and to new developments,
and, so long as they work through the superego, play an
important part in man's life, quite independently of economic conditions. 33
The feminine mystique, elevated by Freudian theory into
a scientific religion, sounded a single, overprotective, Iiferestricting, future-denying note for women. Girls who grew
up playing baseball, baby-sitting, mastering geometry-almost independent enough, almost resourceful enough, to
meet the problems of the fission-fusion era-were told by
the most advanced thinkers of our time to go back and
live their lives as if they were Noras, restricted to the doll's
house by Victorian prejudice. ' And their own respect and
awe for the authority of science-anthropology, sociology,
psychology share that authority now-kept them from
questioning the feminine mystique.

SIX
THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE,
THE FEMININE PROTEST,
AND MARGARET MEAD
INSTEAD OF DESTROYING THE OLD PREJUDICES THAT

restricted women's lives, social science in America merely
gave them new authority. By a curious circular process, the
insights of psychology and anthropology and sociology,
which shoUld have been powerful weapons to free women,
somehow canceled each other out, trapping women in dead
center.
During the last twenty years, under the catalytic impact
of Freudian thought, psychoanalysts, anthropologists, sociologists, social psychologists, and other workers in the behavioral sciences have met in professional seminars and
foundation-financed conferences in many university centers. Cross-fertilization seemed to make them all bloom,
but some strange hybrids were produced. As psychoanalysts began to reinterpret Freudian concepts like "oral" and
"anal" personality in the light of an awareness, borrowed
from anthropology, that cultural processes must have been
at work in Freud's Vienna, anthropologists set out for the
South Sea islands to chart tribal personality according to
literal "oral" and "anal" tables. Armed with "psychological
hints for ethnological field workers," the anthropologists
often found what they were looking for. Instead of translating, sifting, the cultural bias out of Freudian theories,
Margaret Mead, and the others who pioneered in the fieJds
of culture and personality{ compounded the error by fitting
their own anthropological observations into Freudian rubric. But none of this might have had the same freezing effect on women if it had not been for a simultaneous aberration of American social scientists called functionalism.
Centering primarily on cultural anthropology and sociology and reaching its extremes in the applied field of
family-life education, functionalism began as an attempt to
make social science more "scientific" by borrowing from
biology the idea of studying institutions as if they were muscles or bones, in terms of their "structure" and "function"

118

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

in the social body. By studying an institution only in terms
of its function within its own society, the social scientists
intended to avert unscientific value judgments. In practice, functionalism was less a scientific movement than a
scientific word-game. "The function is" was often translated "the function should be"; the social scientists did not
recognize their own prejudices in functional disguise any
more than the analysts recognized "theirs in Freudian disguise. By giving an absolute meaning and a sanctimonious
value to the generic term "woman's role," functionalism
put American women into a kind of deep freeze-like
Sleeping Beauties, waiting for a Prince Charming to waken
them, while all around the magic circle the world moved
on.
The social scientists, male and female, who, in the name
of functionalism, drew this torturously tight circle around
American women, also seemed to share a certain attitude
which I will call "the feminine protest." If there is such a
thing as a masculine protest-the psychoanalytic concept
taken over by the functionalists to describe women who
envied men and wanted to be men and therefore denied
that they were women and became more manly than any
man-its counterpart can be seen today in a feminine protest, made by men and women alike, who deny what women really are and make more of "being a woman" than it
could ever be. The feminine protest, at its most straightforward, is simply a means of protecting women from the
dangers inherent in assuming true equality with men. But
why should any social scientist, with godlike manipulative
superiority, take it upon himself-or herself-to protect
women from the pains of growing up?
Protectiveness has often muffled the sound of doors
closing against women; it has often cloaked a very real prejudice, even when it is offered in the name of science. If an
old-fashioned grandfather frowned at Nora, who is studying calculus because she wants to be a physicist, and muttered, "Woman's place is in the home," Nora would laugh
impatiently, "Grandpa, this is 1963." But she does not
laugh at the urbane pipe-smoking professor of sociology, or
the book by Margaret Mead, or the definitive two-volume
reference on female sexuality, when they tell her the same
thing. The complex, mysterious language of functionalism,
Freudian psychology, and cultural anthropology hides from

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

119

her the fact that they say this with not much more basis
than grandpa.
So our Nora would smile at Queen Victoria's letter, written in 1870: "The Queen is most anxious to enlist everyone who can speak or write to join in checking this mad,
wicked folly of 'Woman's Rights' with all its attendant horrors, on which her poor feeble sex is bent, forgetting every
sense of womanly feeling and propriety. . . . It is a subject which makes the Queen so furious that she cannot contain herself. God created men and women different-then
let them remain each in their own position."
But she does not smile when she reads in Marriage lor
Moderns:
The sexes are complementary. It is the works of my
watch that move the hands and enable me to tell time.
Are the works, therefore, more important than the case?
. . . Neither is superior, neither inferior. Each must be
judged in terms of its own functions. Together they form
a functioning unit. So it is with men and women-together they form a functioning unit. Either alone is in a
sense incomplete. They are complementary. . . . When
men and women engage in the same occupations or perform common functions, the complementary relationship may break down. 1
This book was published in 1942. Girls have studied it as
a college text for the past twenty years. Under the guise of
sociology, or "Marriage and Family Life," or "Life Adjustment," they are offered advice of this sort:
The fact remains, however, that we live in a world of
reality, a world of the present and the immediate future,
on which there rests the heavy hand of the past, a world
in which tradition still holds sway and the mores exert a
stronger influence than does the theorist . . . a world
in which most men and women do marry and in which
most married women are homemakers. To talk about
what might be done if tradition and the mores were radically changed or what may come about by the year 2000
may be interesting mental gymnastics, but it does not
help the young people of today to adjust to the inevitables of life or raise their marriages to a higher plane of
satisfaction. 2

120

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Of course, this "adjustment to the inevitables of life"
denies the speed with which the conditions of life are now
changing-and the fact that many girls who so adjust at
twenty will still be alive in the year 2000. This functionalist
specifically warns against any and all approaches to the
"differences between men and women" except "adjustment" to those differences as they now stand. And if, like
our Nora, a woman is contemplating a career, he shakes a
warning finger.
For the first time in history, American young women
in great numbers are being faced with these questions:
Shall I voluntarily prepare myself for a lifelong celibate
career? Or shall I prepare for a temporary vocation,
which I shall give up when I marry and assume the responsibilities of homemaking and motherhood? Or should
I attempt to combine homemaking and a career? ..•
The great majority of married women are homemakers . . . .
If a woman can find adequate self-expression through
a career rather than through marriage, well and good.
Many young women, however, overlook the fact that
there are numerous careers that do not furnish any medium or offer any opportunity for self-expression. Besides
they do not realize that only the minority of women,
as the minority of men, have anything particularly worthwhile to express. 3
And so Nora is left with the cheerful impression that if
she chooses a career, she is also choosing celibacy. If she
has any illusions about combining marriage and career, the
functionalist admonishes her:
How many individuals . . . can successfully pursue
two careers simultaneously? Not many. The exceptional
person can do it, but the ordinary person cannot. The
problem of combining marriage and homemaking with
another career is especially difficult, since it is likely that
the two pursuits will demand qualities of different types.
The former, to be successful, requires self-negation; the
latter, self-enhancement. The former demands cooperation; the latter competition . . . . There is greater opportunity for happiness if husband and wife supplement

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

121

each other than there is when there is duplication of
function .•.4
And just in case Nora has any doubts about giving up
her career ambitions, she is offered this comforting rationalization:
A woman who is an effective homemaker must know
something about teaching, interior decoration, cooking,
dietetics, consumption, psychology, physiology, social relations, community resources, clothing, household equipment, housing, hygiene and a host of other things. . . •
She is a general practitioner rather than a specialist. . . .
The young woman who decides upon homemaking as
her career need have no feeling of inferiority. . . . One
may say, as some do, "Men can have careers because
women make homes." One may say that women are released from the necessity for wage earning and are free
to devote their time to the extremely important matter
of homemaking because men specialize in breadwinning.
Or one may say that together the breadwinner and the
homemaker form a complementary combination second
to none. 5
This marriage textbook is not the most subtle of its
school. It is almost too easy to see that-its functional argument is based on no real chain of scientific fact. (It is
hardly scientific to say "this is what is, therefore this is
what should be.") But this is the essence of functionalism
as it came to pervade all of American sociology in this period, whether or not the sociologist called himself a "functionalist." In colleges which would never stoop to the "roleplaying lessons" of the so-called functional family course,
young women were assigned Talcott Parsons' authoritative
"analysis of sex-roles in the social structure of the United
States," which contemplates no alternative for a woman
other than the role of "housewife," patterned with varying
emphasis on "domesticity," "glamour," and "good companionship."
It is perhaps not too much to say that only in very
exceptional cases can an adult man be genuinely selfrespecting and enjoy a respected status in the eyes of

122

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

others if he does not "earn a living" in an approved occupational role. • . . In the case of the feminine role
the situation is radically different. . . . The woman's
fundamental status is that of her husband's wife, the
mother of his children, , ,6
Parsons, a highly respected sociologist and the leading
functional theoretician, describes with insight and accuracy
the sources of strain in this "segregation of sex roles." He
points out that the "domestic" aspect of the housewife role
"has declined in importance to the point where it scarcely
approaches a full-time occupation for a vigorous person":
that the "glamour pattern" is "inevitably associated with a
rather early age level" and thus "serious strains result from
·the problem of adaptation to increasing age," that the "good
companion" pattern-which includes "humanistic" cultivation of the arts and community welfare- "suffers from a
lack of fully institutionalized status. . . . It is only those
with the strongest initiative and intelligence who achieve
fully satisfying adaptations in this direction." He states that
"it is quite clear that in the adult feminine role there is
quite sufficient strain and insecurity so that widespread
manifestations are to be expected in the form of neurotic
behavior." But Parsons warns:
It is, of course, possible for the adult woman to follow the masculine pattern and seek a career in fields of
occupational achievement in direct competition with
men of her own class. It is, however, notable that in
spite of the very great progress of the emancipation of
women from the traditional domestic pattern only a very
small fraction have gone very far in this direction. It is
also clear that its generalization would only be possible
with profound alterations in the structure of the family.

True equality between men and women would not be
"functional"; the status quo can be maintained only if the
wife and mother is exclusively a homemaker or, at most,
has a "job" rather than a "career" which might give her
status equal to that of her husband. Thus Parsons finds sexual segregation "functional" in terms of keeping the social
structure as it is, which seems to be the functionalist's primary concern.

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

123

Absolute equality of opportunity is clearly incompatible with any positive solidarity of the family. . ••
Where married women are employed outside the home,
it is, for the great majority, in occupations which are not
in direct competition for status with those of men of
their own class. Women's interests, and the standard of
judgment applied to them, run, in our society, far more
in the direction of personal adornment. . . . It is suggested that this difference is functionally related to maintaining family solidarity in our class structure. 7
Even the eminent woman sociologist Mirra Komarovsky,
whose functional analysis of how girls learn to "play the
role of woman" in our society is brilliant indeed, cannot
quite escape the rigid mold functionalism imposes: adjustment to the status quo. For to limit one's field of inquiry
to the function of an institution in a given social system,
with no alternatives considered, provides an infinite number of rationalizations for all the inequalities and inequities of that system. It is not surprising that social scientists
began to mistake their own function as one of helping the
individual "adjust" to his "role," in that system.
A social order can function only because the vast majority have somehow adjusted themselves to their place
in society and perform the functions expected of them.
• . . The differences in the upbringing of the sexes . . .
are obviously related to their respective roles in adult
life. The future homemaker trains for her role within
the home, but the boy prepares for his by being given
more independence outside the home, by his taking a
"paper route" or a summer job. A provider will profit
by independence, dominance, aggressiveness, competitiveness. s
The risk of the "traditional upbringing" of girls, as this
sociologist sees it, is its possible "failure to develop in the
girl the independence, inner resources, and that degree of
self-assertion which life will demand of her"-in her role
as wife. The functional warning follows:
Even if a parent correctly [sic) considers certain conventional attributes of the feminine role to be worthless,
he creates risks for the girl in forcing her to stray too far

124

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

from the accepted mores of her time. . . . The steps
which parents must take to prepare their daughters to
meet economic exigencies and familial responsibilities of
modern life--these very steps may awaken aspirations
and develop habits which conflict with certain features
of their feminine roles, as these are defined today. The
very education which is to make the college housewife
a cultural leaven of her family and her community may
develop in her interests which are frustrated by other
phases of housewifery.••. We run the risk of awakening interests and abilities which, again, run counter to
the present definition of femininity. 9
She goes on to cite the recent case of a girl who wanted
to be a sociologist. She was engaged to a GI who didn't want
his wife to work. The girl herself hoped she wouldn't find
a good job in sociology.
An unsatisfactory job would, she felt, make it easier
for her to comply eventually with her future husband's
wishes. The needs of the country for trained workers,
the uncertainty of her own future, her current interests
notwithstanding, she took a routine job. Only the future
will tell whether her decision was prudent. If her fiance
returns from the front, if the marriage takes place, if he
is able to provide for the family without her assistance,
if her frustrated wishes do not boomerang, then she will
not regret her decision. . . .
At the present historical moment, the best adjusted
girl is probably one who is intelligent enough to do well
in school but not so brilliant as to get all A's . . . capable but not in areas relatively new to women; able to
stand on her own two feet and to earn a living, but not
so good a living as to compete with men; capable of doing some job well (in case she doesn't marry, or otherwise has to work) but not so identified with a profession
as to need it for her happiness. 1o

So, in the name of adjustment to the cultural definition
of femininity-in which this brilliant sociologist obviously
does not herself believe (that word "correctly" betrays her)
-she ends up virtually endorsing the continued infantilizing
of American woman, except insofar as it has the unintended consequence of making "the transition from the role

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

125

of daughter to that of the spouse more difficult for her
than for the son."
Essentially, it is assumed that to the extent that the
woman remains more "infantile," less able to make her
own decisions, more dependent upon one or both parents for initiating and channeling behavior and attitudes,
more closely attached to them so as to find it difficult
to part from them or to face their disapproval . . . or
shows any other indices of lack of emotional emancipation-to that extent she may find it more difficult than
the man to conform to the cultural norm of primary
loyalty to the family she establishes later. It is possible,
of course, that the only effect of the greater sheltering is
to create in women a generalized dependency which will
then be transferred to the husband and which will enable her all the more readily to accept the role of wife
in a family which still has many patriarchal features.ll
She finds evidence in a number of studies that college
girls, in fact, are more infantile, dependent and tied to parents than boys, and do not mature, as boys do, by learning
to stand alone. But she can find no evidence--in twenty
psychiatric texts-that there are, accordingly, more in-law
problems with the wife's parents than the husband's. Evidently, only with such evidence could a functionalist comfortably question the deliberate infantilization of American
girls!
Functionalism was an easy out for American sociologists. There can be no doubt that they were describing things
"as they were," but in so doing, they were relieved of the
responsibility of building theory from facts, of probing for
deeper truth. They were also relieved of the need to formulative questions and answers that would be inevitably
controversial (at a time in academic circles, as in America
as a whole, when controversy was not welcome). They assumed an endless present, and based their reasoning on
denying the possibility of a future different from the past.
Of course, their reasoning would hold up only as long as
the future did not change. As C. P. Snow has pointed out,
science and scientists are future-minded. Social scientists
under the functional banner were so rigidly present-minded
that they denied the future; their theories enforced the
prejudices of the past, and actually prevented change.

126

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Sociologists themselves have recently come to the conclusion that functionalism was rather "embarrassing" because it really said nothing at all. As Kingsley Davis pointed
out in his presidential address on "The Myth of Functional
Analysis as a Special Method in Sociology and Anthropology" at the American Sociological Association in 1959:
For more than thirty years now "functional analysis"
has been debated among sociologists and anthropologists.
, • . However strategic it may have been in the past, it
has now become an impediment rather than a prop to
scientific progress. , , , The claim that functionalism
cannot handle social change because it posits an integrated static society is true by definition. , , ,12
Unfortunately, the female objects of functional analysis
were profoundly affected by it. At a time of great change
for women, at a time when education, science, and social
science should have helped women bridge the change, functionalism transformed "what is" for women, or "what
was," to "what should be." Those who perpetrated the feminine protest, and made more of being a woman than it
can ever be, in the name of functionalism or for whatever
complex of personal or intellectual reasons, closed the door
of the future on women. In all the concern for adjustment,
one truth was forgotten: women were being adjusted to a
state inferior to their full capabilities. The functionalists
did not wholly accept the Freudian argument that "anatomy is destiny," but they accepted whole-heartedly an equally restrictive definition of woman: woman is what society
says she is. And most of the functional anthropologists
studied societies in which woman's destiny was defined by
anatomy.
The most powerful influence on modem women. in
terms both of functionalism and the feminine protest, was
Margaret Mead. Her work on culture and personalitybook after book, study after study-has had a profound
effect on the women in my generation, the one before it;
and the generation now growing up. She was, and still is,
the symbol of the woman thinker in America. She has written millions of words in the thirty-odd years between Coming of Age in Samoa in 1928 and her latest article on American women in the New York Times Magazine or Redbook.

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

127

She is studied in college classrooms by girls taking courses
in anthropology, sociology, psychology, education, and marriage and family life; in graduate schools by those who will
one day teach girls and counsel women; in medical schools
by future pediatricians and psychiatrists; even in theological schools by progressive young ministers. And she is read
in the women's magazines and the Sunday supplements,
where she publishes as readily as in the learned journals,
by girls and women of all ages. Margaret Mead is her own
best popularizer-and her influence has been felt in almost
every layer of American thought.
But her influence, for women, has been a paradox. A
mystique takes what it needs from any thinker of the time.
The feminine mystique might have taken from Margaret
Mead her vision of the infinite variety of sexual patterns
and the enormous plasticity of human nature, a vision
based on the differences of sex and temperament she found
in three primitive societies: the Arapesh, where both men
and women were "feminine" and "maternal" in personality
and passively sexual, because both were trained to be cooperative, unaggressive, responsive to the needs and demands of others; the Mundugumor, where both husband
and wife were violent, aggressive, positively sexed, "masculine"; and the Tchambuli, where the woman was the dominant, impersonal managing partner, and the man the less
responsible and emotionally dependent person.
,
If those temperamental attitudes which we have traditionally regarded as feminine-such as passivity, responsiveness, and a willingness to cherish children-can
so easily be set up as the masculine pattern in one tribe,
and in another be outlawed for the majority of women
as well as for the majority of men, we no longer have
any basis for regarding such aspects of behavior as sexlinked. . . . The material suggests that we may say that
many, if not all, of the personality traits which we have
called masculine or feminine are as lightly linked to sex,
as are the clothing, the manners, and the form of headdress that a society at a given period assigns to either
sex.1 3

From such anthropological observations, she might have
passed on to the popular culture a truly revolutionary vi-

,

128

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

sion of women finally free to realize their full capabilities
in a society which replaced arbitrary sexual definitions
with a recognition of genuine individual gifts as they occur
in either sex. She had such a vision, more than once:
Where writing is accepted as a profession that may be
pursued by either sex with perfect suitability, individuals
who have the ability to write need not be debarred from
it by their sex, nor need they, if they do write, doubt
their essential masculinity or femininity . . . and it is
here that we can find a ground-plan for building a society that would substitute real differences for arbitrary
ones. We must recognize that beneath the superficial
classifications of sex and race the same potentialities
exist, recurring generation after generation, only to perish because society has no place for them.
Just as society now permits the practice of an art to
members of either sex, so it might also permit the development of many contrasting temperamental gifts in each
sex. It would abandon its various attempts to make boys
fight and to make girls remain passive, or to make all
children fight. ••• No child would be relentlessly
shaped to one pattern of behavior, but instead there
should be many patterns, in a world that had learned to
allow to each individual the pattern which was most congenial to his gifts.u
But this is not the vision the mystique took from Margaret Mead; nor is it the vision that she continues to offer.
Increasingly, in her own pages, her interpretation blurs, is
subtly transformed, into a glorification of Women in the
female role-as defined by their sexual biological function.
At times she seems to lose her own anthropological awareness of the malleability of human personality, and to look
at anthropological data from the Freudian point of viewsexual biology determines all, anatomy is destiny. At times
she seems to be arguing in functional terms, that while
woman's potential is as great and various as the unlimited
human potential, it is better to preserve the sexual biological limitations established by a culture. At times she says
both things in the same page, and even sounds a note of
caution, warning of the dangers a woman faces in trying to

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

129

realize a human potential which her society has defined as
masculine.
The difference between the two sexes is one of the
important conditions upon which we have built the many
varieties of human culture tr.at give human beings dignity and stature. . • . Sometimes one quality has been
assigned to one sex, sometimes to the other. Now it is
boys who are thought of as infinitely vulnerable and in
need of special cherishing care, now it is girls .•••
Some people think of women as too weak to work out of
doors, others regard women as the appropriate bearers
of heavy burdens "because their heads are stronger than
men's." . . . Some religions, including our European
traditional religions, have assigned women an inferior
role in the religious hierarchy, others have built their
whole symbolic relationship with the supernatural world
upon male imitations of the natural functions of women.
• . • Whether we deal with small matters or with large,
with the frivolities of ornament and cosmetics or the
sanctities of man's place in the universe, we find this
great variety of ways, often flatly contradictory one to
the other, in which the roles of the two sexes have been
patterned.
But we always find the patterning. We know of no
culture that has said, articulately, that there is no difference between men and women except in the way they
contribute to the creation of the next generation; that
otherwise in all respects they are simply human beings
with varying gifts, no one of which can be exclusively
assigned to either sex.
Are we dealing with a must that we dare not flout because it is rooted so deep in our biological mammalian
nature that to flout it means individual and social disease? Or with a must that, although not so deeply rooted,
still is so very socially convenient and so well tried that
it would be uneconomical to flout it-a must which says,
for example, that it is easier to get children born and
bred if we stylize the behavior of the sexes very differently, teaching them to walk and dress and act in contrasting ways and to specialize in different kinds of
work?15

130

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

_We must also ask: What are the potentialities of sex
differences? . . . If little boys have to meet and assimilate the early shock of knowing that they can never create a baby with the sureness and incontrovertibility that
is a woman's birthright, how does this make them more
creatively ambitious, as well as more dependent upon
achievement? If little girls have a rhythm of growth
which means that their own sex appears to them as initially less sure than their brothers, and so gives them a
little false flick towards compensatory achievement that
almost always dies down before the certainty of maternity, this probably does mean a limitation on their sense
of ambition? But what positive potentialities are there
alsO?16
In these passages from Male and Female, a book which
became the cornerstone of the feminine mystique, Margaret Mead betrays her Freudian orientation, even though
she cautiously prefaces each statement of apparent scientific fact with the small word "if." But it is a very significant "if." For when sexual differences become the basis of
your approach to culture and personality, and when you
assume that sexuality is the driving force of human personality (an assumption that you took from Freud), and
when, moreover, as an anthropologist, you know that there
are no true-for-every-culture sexual differences except
those involved in the act of procreation, you will inevitably
give that one biological difference, the difference in reproductive role, increasing importance in the determination of
woman's personality.
Margaret Mead did not conceal the fact that, after 1931,
Freudian rubrics, based on the zOI}es of the body, were
part of the equipment she took with her on anthropological
field trips.17 Thus she began to equate "those assertive,
creative, productive aspects of life on which the superstructure of a civilization depends" with the penis, and to define feminine creativity in terms of the "passive receptivity" of the uterus.
In discussing men and women, I shall be concerned
with the primary differences between them, the difference in their reproductive roles. Out of the bodies fashioned for complementary roles in perpetuating the race,
what differences in functioning, in capacities, in sensitivi-

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

131

ties, in vulnerabilities arise? How is what men can do
related to the fact that their reproductive role is over in
a single act, what women can do related to the fact that
their reproductive role takes nine months of gestation,
and until recently many months of breast feeding? What
is the contribution of each sex, seen as itself, not as a
mere imperfect version of the other?
Living in the modem world, clothed and mufDed,
forced to convey our sense of our bodies in terms of remote symbols like walking sticks and umbrellas and
handbags, it is easy to lose sight of the immediacy of the
human body plan. But when one lives among primitive
peoples, where women wear only a pair of little grass
aprons, and may discard even these to insult each other
or to bathe in a group, and men wear only a very lightly
fastened G-string of beaten bark . . . and small babies
wear nothing at all, the basic communications . • • that
are conducted between bodies become very real. In our
own society, we have now invented a therapeutic method that can laboriously deduce from the recollections of
the neurotic, or the untrammelled phantasies of the psychotic, how the human body, its entrances and exits,
originally shaped the growing individual's view of the
world. lS
As a matter of fact, the lens of "anatomy is destiny"
seemed to be peculiarly right for viewing the cultures and
personalities of Samoa, Manus, Arapesh, Mundugumor,
Tchambuli, Iatmul and Bali; right as perhaps it never was
right, in that formulation, for Vienna at the end of the
nineteenth century or America in the twentieth.
In the primitive civilizations of the South Sea islands,
anatomy was still destiny when Margaret Mead first visited
them. Freud's theory that the primitive instincts of the
body determined adult personality could find convincing
demonstration. The complex goals of more advanced civilizations, in which instinct and environment are increasingly controlled and transformed by the human mind, did not
then form the irreversible matrix of every human life. It
must have been much easier to see biological differences
between men and women as the basic force in life in those
unclothed primitive peoples. But only if you go to such an
island with the Freudian lens in your eye, accepting before
you start what certain irreverent anthropologists call the

132

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

toilet-paper theory of history, will you draw from observations in primitive civilizations of the role of the unclothed
body, male or female, a lesson for modern women which
assumes that the unclothed body can determine in the same
way the course of human life and personality in a complex modern civilization.
Anthropologists today are less inclined to see in primitive civilization a laboratory for the observation of our own
civilization, a scale model with all the irrelevancies blotted
out; civilization is just not that irrelevant.
Because the human body is the same in primitive South
Sea tribes and modern cities, an anthropologist, who starts
with a psychological theory that reduces human personality and civilization to bodily analogies, can end up advising
modern women to live through their bodies in the same
way as the women of the South Seas. The trouble is that
Margaret Mead could not recreate a South Sea world for
us to live in: a world where having a baby is the pinnacle
of human achievement. (If reproduction were the chief and
only fact of human life, would all men today suffer from
"uterus envy?")
In Bali, little girls between two and three walk much of
the time with purposely thrust-out little bellies, and the
older women tap them playfully as they pass. "Pregnant,"
they tease. So the little girl learns that although the signs
of her membership in her own sex are slight, her breasts
mere tiny buttons no bigger than her brother's, her genitals a simple inconspicuous fold, some day she will be
pregnant, some day she will have a baby, and having a
baby is, on the whole, one of the most exciting and conspicuous achievements that can be presented to the eyes
of small children in these simple worlds, in some of
which the largest buildings are only fifteen feet high, the
largest boat some twenty feet long. Furthermore, the little girl learns that she will have a baby not because she
is strong or energetic or initiating, not because she works
and struggles and tries, and in the end succeeds, but simply because she is a girl and not a boy, and girls turn into
women, and in the end-if they protect their femininity
-have babies. 19
To an American woman in the twentieth century competing in a field which demands initiative and energy and

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

133

work and in which men resent her success, to a woman
with less will and ability to compete than Margaret Mead,
how tempting is her vision of that South Sea world where
a woman succeeds and is envied by man just by being a
woman.
In our Occidental view of life, woman, fashioned from
man's rib, can at the most strive unsuccessfully to imitate man's superior powers and higher vocations. The
basic theme of the initiatory cult, however, is that women, by virtue of their ability to make children, hold the
secret of life. Man's role is uncertain, undefined, and
perhaps unnecessary. By a great effort man has hit upon
a method of compensating himself for his basic inferiority. Equipped with various mysterious noise-making
instruments, whose potency rests upon their actual forms
being unknown to those who hear the sounds-that is,
the women and children must never know that they are
really bamboo fiutes, or hollow logs . . . they can get
the male children away from the women, brand them as
incomplete and themselves turn boys into men. Women, it is true, make human beings, but only men can make
men. 20
True, this primitive society was a "shaky structure, protected by endless taboos and precautions"-by women's
shame, fluttery fear, indulgence of male vanity-and it survived only as long as everyone kept the rules. "'The missionary who shows the flutes to the women has broken the
culture successfuHy."21 But Margaret Mead, who might
have shown American men and women "the flutes" of their
own arbitrary and shaky taboos, precautions, shames,
fears, and indulgence of male vanity, did not use her knowledge in this way. Out of life the way it was-in Samoa,
Bali, where all men envied women-she held up an ideal
for American women that gave new reality to the shaky
structure of ~exual prejudice, the feminine mystique.
The language is anthropological, the theory stated as fact
is Freudian, but the yearning is for a return to the Garden
of Eden: a garden where women need only forget the "divine discontent" born of education to return to a world in
which male achievement becomes merely a poor substitute
for child-bearing.

134

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

The recurrent problem of civilization is to define the
male role satisfactorily enough-whether it be to build
gardens or raise cattle, kill game or kill enemies, build
bridges or handle bank shares-so that the male may, in
the course of his life, reach a solid sense of irreversible
achievement of which his childhood knowledge of the
satisfactions of child-bearing has given him a glimpse. In
the case of women, it is only necessary that they be permitted by the given social arrangements to fulfill their
biological role, to attain this sense of irreversible achievement. If women are to be restless and questing, even in
the face of childbearing, they must be made so through
education. 22
What the feminine mystique took from Margaret Mead
was not her vision of woman's great untested human potential, but this glorification of the female sexual function
that has indeed been tested, in every culture, but seldom,
in civilized cultures, valued as highly as the unlimited potential of human creativity, so far mainly displayed by
man. The vision the mystique took from Margaret Mead
was of a world where women, by merely being women and
bearing children, will earn the same respect accorded men
for their creative achievements-as if possession of uterus
and breasts bestows on women a glory that men can never
know, even though they labor all their lives to create. In
such a world, all the other things that a woman can do or
be are merely pale substitutes for the conception of a child.
Femininity becomes more than its definition by society; it
becomes a value which society must protect from the destructive onrush of civilization like the vanishing buffalo.
Margaret Mead's eloquent pages made a great many
American women envy the serene femininity of a barebreasted Samoan, and try to make themselves into languorous savages, breasts unfettered by civilization's brassieres,
and brains undisturbed by pallid man-made knowledge of
the goals of human progress.
Woman's biological career-line has a natural climax
structure that can be overlaid, muted, muffled and publicly denied, but which remains as an essential element in
both sexes' view of themselves . . . . The young Balinese
girl to whom one says, "Your name is I Tewa?" and who
draws herself up and answers, "I am Men Bawa" (Moth-

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

135

er of Bawa) is speaking absolutely. She is the mother of
Bawa; Bawa may die tomorrow, but she remains the
mother of Bawa; only if he had died unnamed would her
neighbors have called her "Men Belasin," "Mother Bereft." Stage after stage in women's life-histories thus
stand, irrevocable, indisputable, accomplished. This gives
a natural basis for the little girl's emphasis on being rather than on doing. The little boy learns that he must act
like a boy, do things, prove that he is a boy, and prove it
over and over again, while the little girl learns that she is
a girl, and all she has to do is to refrain from acting like a
boy.23
And so it goes, on and on, until one is inclined to sayso what? You are born, you grow, you are impregnated,
you have a child, it grows; this is true of all cultures, re.corded or unrecorded, the one we know from life and the
recondite ones which only the far-traveled anthropologist
knows. But is this all there is to life for a woman today?
It is not to deny the importance of biology to question a
definition of woman's nature that is based so completely
on her biological difference from man. Female biology,
woman's "biological career-line," may be changeless-the
same in Stone Age women twenty thousand years ago, and
Samoan women on remote islands, and American women
in the twentieth century-but the nature of the human relationship to biology has changed. Our increasing knowledge, the increasing potency of human intelligence, has given us an awareness of purposes and goals beyond the simple
biological needs of hunger, thirst, and sex. Even these simple needs, in men or women today, are not the same as
they were in the Stone Age or in the South Sea cultures,
because they are now part of a more complex pattern of
human life.
As an anthropologist, of course, Margaret Mead knew
this. And for all ber words glorifying the female role, there
are other words picturing the wonders of a world in which
women would be able to realize their full capabilities. But
this picture is almost invariably overlaid with the therapeutic caution, the manipulative superiority, typical of too
many American social scientists. When this caution is combined with perhaps an over-evaluation of the power of social science not merely to interpret culture and personality,
but to order our lives, her words acquire the aura of a

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

136

righteous crusade-a crusade against change. She joins the
other functional social scientists in their emphasis on adjusting to society as we find it, on living our lives within
the framework of the conventional cultural definitions of
the male and female roles. This attitude is explicit in the
later pages of Male and Female.
Giving each sex its due, a full recognition of its special
vulnerabilities and needs for protection, means looking
beyond the superficial resemblances during the period of
later childhood when both boys and girls, each having
laid many of the problems of sex adjustment aside, seem
so eager to learn, and so able to learn the same things.
• . . But every adjustment that minimizes a difference, a
vulnerability, in one sex, a differential strength in the
other, diminishes their possibility of complementing each
other, and corresponds--symbolically-to sealing off the
constructive receptivity of the female and the vigorous
outgoing constructive activity of the male, muting them
both in the end to a duller version of human life, in
which each is denied the fullness of humanity that each
might have had. 24
No human gift is strong enough to flower fully in a
person who is threatened with loss of sex membership.
• . . No matter with what good will we may embark on
a program of actually rearing both men and women to
make their full and special contributions in all the complex processes of civilization-medicine and law, education and religion, the arts and sciences-the task will
be very difficult. . . .
It is of very doubtful value to enlist the gifts of women if bringing women into fields that have been defined
as male frightens the men, unsexes the women, muffles
and distorts the contribution the women could make, either because their presence excludes men from the occupation or because it changes the quality of the men who
enter it. . . . It is folly to ignore the signs which warn
us that the present terms in which women are lured by
their own curiosities and drives developed under the
same educational system
boys • . • are bad for both
men and women. 25

as

The role of Margaret Mead as the professional spokesman of femininity would have been less important if Amer-

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

137

ican women had taken the example of her own life, instead of listening to what she said in her books. Margaret
Mead has lived a life of open challenge, and lived it proudly, if sometimes self-consciously, as a woman. She has
moved on the frontiers of thought and added to the superstructure of our knowledge. She has demonstrated feminine
capabilities that go far beyond childbirth; she made her
way in what was still very much a "man's world" without
denying that she was a woman; in fact, she proclaimed in
her work a unique woman's knowledge with which no male
anthropologist could compete. After so many centuries of
unquestioned masculine authority, how natural for someone to proclaim a feminine authority. But the great human
visions of stopping wars, curing sickness, teaching races to
live together, building new and beautiful structures for people to live in, are more than "other ways of having children."
It is not easy to combat age-old prejudices. As a social
scientist, and as a woman, she struck certain blows against
the prejudicial image of woman that may long outlast her
own life. In her insistence that women are human beings
-unique human beings, not men with something inissingshe went a step beyond Freud. And yet, because her observations were based on Freud's bodily analogies, she cut
down her own vision of women by glorifying the mysterious
miracle of femininity, which a woman realizes simply by
being female, letting the breasts grow and the menstrual
blood flow and the baby suck from the swollen breast. In
her warning that women who seek fulfillment beyond their
biological role are in danger of becoming desexed witches,
she spelled out again an unnecessary choice. She persuaded
younger women to give up part of their dearly won humanity rather than lose their femininity. In the end she did the
very thing that she warned against, re-creating in her work
the vicious circle that she broke in her own life:
We may go up the scale from simple physical differences through complementary distinctions that overstress
the role of sex difference and extend it inappropriately
to other aspects of life, to stereotypes of such complex
activities as those involved in the formal use of the intellect, in the arts, in government, and in religion.
In all these complex achievements of civilization, those
activities which are mankind's glory, and upon which de-

138

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

pends our hope of survival in this world that we have
built, there has been this tendency to make artificial definitions that limit an activity to one sex, and by denying
the actual potentialities of human beings limit not only
both men and women, but also equally the development
of the activity itself. • . .
Here is a vicious circle to which it is not possible to
assign either a beginning or an end, in which men's overestimation of women's roles, or women's overestimation
of men's roles leads one sex or the other to arrogate, to
neglect, or even to relinquish part of our so dearly won
humanity. Those who would break the circle are themselves a product of it, express some of its defects in their
every gesture, may be only strong enough to challenge it,
not able actually to break it. Yet once identified, once
analyzed, it should be possible to create a climate of
opinion in which others, a little less the product of the
dark past because they have been reared with a light in
their hand that can shine backwards as well as forwards,
may in turn take the next step.26
Perhaps the feminine protest was a necessary step after
the masculine protest made by some of the feminists. Margaret Mead was one of the first women to emerge into
prominence in American life after rights for women were
won. Her mother was a social scientist, her grandmother a
teacher; she had private images of women who were fully
human, she had education equal to any man's. And she was
able to say with conviction: it's good to be a woman, you
don't need to copy man, you can respect yourself as a
woman. She made a resounding feminine protest, in her life
and in her work. And it was a step forward when she influenced emancipated modern women to choose, with free
intelligence, to have babies, bear them with a proud awareness that denied pain, nurse them at the breast and devote
mind and body to their care. It was a step forward in the
passionate journey-and one made possible by it-for educated women to say ''yes'' to motherhood as a conscious
human purpose and not a burden imposed by the flesh.
For, of course, the natural childbirth-breastfeeding movement Margaret Mead helped inspire was not at all a return
to primitive earth-mother maternity. It appealed to the independent, educated, spirited American woman-and to
her counterparts in western Europe and Russia-because

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

139

it enabled her to experience childbirth not as a mindless
female animal, an object manipulated by the obstetrician,
but as a whole person, able to control ber own body with
ber aware mind. Perhaps less important than birth control
and the other rights which made woman more equal to
man, the work of Margaret Mead belped bumanize sex. It
took a scientific supersaleswoman to recreate in modem
American life even a semblance of the conditions under
which primitive tribesmen jealously imitated maternity and
bled themselves. (The modern busband goes througb the
breathing exercises with his wife as she prepares for natural
childbirth.) But did she oversell women?
It was, perhaps, not her fault that she was taken so literally that procreation became a cult, a career, to the exclusion of every other kind of creative endeavor, until
women kept on having babies because they knew no other
way to create. She was often quoted out of context by the
lesser functionalists and the women's magazines. Those who
found in her work confirmation of their own unadmitted
prejudices and fears ignored not only the complexity of her
total work, but the example of her complex life. With all
the difficulties she must have encountered, pioneering as a
woman in the realm of abstract thought that was the domain of man (a one-sentence review of Sex and Temperament indicates the resentment she often met: "Margaret,
have you found a culture yet where the men had the babies?"), she has never retreated from the hard road to selfrealization so few women have traveled since. She told
women often enough to stay on that road. If they only
heard her other words of warning, and conformed to her
glorification of femininity, perhaps it was because they
were not as sure of themselves and their human abilities as
she was.
Margaret Mead and the lesser functionalists knew the
pains, the risks, of breaking through age-old social strictures. 27 This awareness was their justification for qualifying their statements of women's potentiality with the advice that women not compete with men, but seek respect
for their uniqueness as women. It was hardly revolutionary
advice; it did not upset the traditional image of woman any
more than Freudian thought upset it. Perhaps it was their
intention to subvert the old image; but instead they gave
the new mystique its scientific authority.
Ironically, Margaret Mead, in the 1960's, began to voice

140

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

alarm at the "return of the cavewoman"-the retreat of
American women to narrow domesticity, while the world
trembled on the brink of technological holocaust. In an excerpt from a book titled American Women: The Changing
Image, which appeared in the Saturday Evening Post
(March 3, 1962), she asked:
Why have we returned, despite our advances in technology, to the Stone Age picture? . . . Woman has gone
back, each to her separate cave, waiting anxiously for
her mate and children to return, guarding her mate jealously against other women, almost totally unaware of
any life outside her door. . . . In this retreat into fecundity, it is not the individual woman who is to blame.
It is the climate of opinion that has developed in this
country ••
Apparently Margaret Mead does not acknowledge, or
perhaps recognize her own role as a major architect of
that "climate of opinion." Apparently she has overlooked
much of her own work, which helped persuade several generations of able modem American women "in desperate
cavewoman style, to devote their whole lives to narrow
domesticity-first in schoolgirl dreaming and a search for
roles which make them appealingly ignorant, then as mothers and then as grandmothers . . . restricting their activities to the preservation of their own private, and often
boring existences."
Even though it would seem that Margaret Mead is now
trying to get women out of the home, she still ascribes a
sexual specialness to everything a woman does. Trying to
seduce them into the modern world of science as "the
teacher-mothers of infant scientists," she is still translating
the new possibilities open to women and the new problems
facing them as members of the human race into sexual
terms. But now "those roles which have historically belonged to women" are stretched to include political responsibility for nuclear disarmament-"to cherish not just their
own but the children of the enemy." Since, beginning with
the same premise and examining the same body of anthropological evidence, she now arrives at a slightly different
sexual role for women, one might seriously question the
basis upon which she decides the roles a woman should

THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE AND MARGARET MEAD

141

play-and finds it so easy to change the rilles of the game
from one decade to the next.Other social scientists have arrived at the astonishing
conclusion that "being a woman was no more and no less
than being human."28 But a cultural lag is built into the
feminine mystique. By the time a few social scientists were
discovering the flaws in "woman's role," American educators had seized upon it as a magic sesame. Instead of educating women for the greater maturity required to participate in modern society-with all the problems, conflicts,
and hard work involved, for educators as well as women
-they began educating them to "play the role of woman."

S EVE N

THE SEX-DIRECTED EDUCATORS
IT MUST HAVE BEEN GOING ON FOR TEN OR FIF-

teen years before the educators even suspected it-the oldfashioned educators, that is. The new sex-directed educators were surprised that anyone should be surprised,
shocked that anyone should be shocked.
The shock, the mystery, to the naive who had great hopes
for the higher education of women was that more American women than ever before were going to college-but
fewer of them were going on from college to become physicists, philosophers, poets, doctors, lawyers, stateswomen,
social pioneers, even college professors. Fewer women in
recent college graduating classes have gone on to distinguish
themselves in a career or profession than those in the
classes graduated before World War II, the Great Divide.
Fewer and fewer college women wer-e preparing for any
career or profession requiring more than the most casual
commitment. Two out of three girls who entered college
were dropping out before they even finished. In the 1950's,
those who stayed, even the most able, showed no signs of
wanting to be anything more than suburban housewives and
mothers. In fact, to professors at Vassar and Smith and
Barnard, resorting to desperate means to arouse students'
interest in anything college could teach them, the girls
seemed suddenly incapable of any ambition, any vision,
any passion, except the pursuit of a wedding ring. In this
pursuit they seemed almost desperate, as early as freshman year.
Out of loyalty to that more and more futile ilIusionthe importance of higher education for women-the purist
professors kept quiet at first. But the disuse of, the resistance to, higher education by American women finally began to show in the statistics:! in the departure of the male
presidents, scholars, and educators from women's colleges;
in the disillusionment, the mystified frustration or cool
cynicism of the ones who stayed; and in the skepticism,

THE SEX·DlRECTED EDUCATORS

143

finally, in colleges and universities, about the value of a
professorial investment in any girl or woman, no matter
how apparently able and ambitious. Some women's colleges
went out of business; some professors, at coeducational
universities, said one out of three college places should no
longer be wasted on women; the president of Sarah Lawrence, a women's college with high intellectual values, spoke
of opening the place to men; the president of Vassar predicted the end of all the great American women's colleges
which pioneered higher education for women.
When I read the first cautious hints of what was happening, in the preliminary report of the psychological-sociological-anthropological Mellon Foundation study of Vassar girls in 1956, I thought, "My, how Vassar must have
deteriorated. "
Strong commitment to an activity or career other than
that of housewife is rare. Many students, perhaps a third,
are interested in graduate schooling and in careers, for
example, teaching. Few, however, plan to continue with
a career if it should conflict with family needs. • . . As
compared to previous periods, however, e.g., the "feminist era," few students are interested in the pursuit of
demanding careers, suc,h as law or medicine, regardless
of personal or social pressures. Similarly, one finds few
instances of people like Edna St. Vincent Millay, individuals completely committed to their art by the time
of adolescence and resistant to any attempts to tamper
with it . . .2
A later report elaborated:
Vassar students . . . are further convinced that toe
wrongs of society will gradually right themselves with
little or no direct intervention on the part of women college students. . . . Vassar girls, by and large, do not expect to achieve fame, make an enduring contribution to
society, pioneer any frontiers, or otherwise create ripples
in the placid order of things. . . . Not only is spinsterhood viewed as a personal tragedy but offspring are considered essential to the full life and the Vassar student believes that she would willingly adopt children, if it were
necessary, to create a family. In short, her future identity
is largely encompassed by the projected role of wife-

144

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

mother. • • • In describing the qualities to be found in
an ideal husband, the majority of Vassar girls are quite
explicit in their preference for the man who will assume
the most important role, that is, handle his own career
and make the majority of decisions affecting matters outside the home. . • • That the female should attempt, in
their thinking, to usurp the prerogatives of the male is a
distasteful notion which would seriously disrupt their
own projected role of helpmate and faithful complement
to the man of the house.8
I saw the change, a very real one, when I went back to
my own college in 1959, to live for a week with the students in a campus house at Smith, and then went on to
interview girls from colleges and universities all over the
United States.
A beloved psychology professor, on the eve of his retirement, complained:
They're bright enough. They have to be, to get here at
all now. But they just won't let themselves get interested.
They seem to feel it will get in their way when they marry the young executive and raise all those children in the
suburbs. I couldn't schedule the final seminar for my
senior honor students. Too many kitchen showers interfered. None of them considered the seminar sufficiently
important to postpone their kitchen showers.
He's exaggerating, I thought.
I picked up a copy of the college newspaper I had once
edited. The current student editor described a government
class in which fifteen of the twenty girls were knitting "with
the stony-faced concentration of Madame Defarge. The instructor, more in challenge than in seriousness, announced
that Western civilization is coming to an end. The students
turned to their notebooks and wrote 'Western civ--coming
to an end,' all without dropping a stitch."
Why do they need such baiting, I wondered, remembering how we used to stand around after class, arguing about
what the professor had said-Economic Theory, Political
Philosophy, the History of Western Civilization, Sociology
21, Science and the Imagination, even Chaucer. "What
courses are people excited about now?" I asked a blonde

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

145

senior in cap and gown. Nuclear physics, maybe? Modern
art? The civilizations of Africa? Looking at me as if I were
some prehistoric dinosaur, she said:
Girls don't get excited about things like that anymore.
We don't want careers. Our parents expect us to go to
college. Everybody goes. You're a social outcast at home
if you don't. But a girl who got serious about anything
she studied-like, wanting to go on and do researchwould be peculiar, unfeminine. I guess everybody wants
to graduate with a diamond ring on her finger. That's the
important thing.
I discovered an unwritten rule barring "shop talk" about
courses, intellectual talk, in some college houses. On the
campus, the girls looked as if they were in such a hurry,
rushing, rushing. Nobody, except a few faculty members,
sat around talking in the coffee dives or the corner drugstore. We used to sit for hours arguing what-is-truth, artfor-art's-sake, religion, sex, war and peace, Freud and
Marx, and all the things that were wrong with the world. A
cool junior told me:
We never waste time like that. We don't have bull
sessions about abstract things. Mostly, we talk about our
dates. Anyhow, I spend three days a week off campus.
There's a boy I'm interested in. I want to be with him.
A dark-eyed senior in a raincoat admitted, as a kind of
secret addiction, that she liked to wander around the stacks
in the library and "pick up books that interest me."
You learn freshman year to turn up your nose at the
library. Lately though-well, it hits you, that you won't
be at college next year. Suddenly you wish you'd read
more, talked more, taken hard courses you skipped. So
you'd know what you're interested in. But I guess those
things don't matter when you're married. You're interested in your home and teaching your children how to
swim and skate, and at night you talk to your husband.
I think we'll be happier than college women used to be.
These girls behaved as if col1ege were an interval to be

146

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

gotten through impatiently, efficiently, bored but businesslike, so "real" life could begin. And real life was when you
married and lived in a suburban house with your husband
and children. Was it quite natural, this boredom, this businesslike haste? Was it real, this preoccupation with marriage? The girls who glibly disclaimed any serious interest
in their education with talk of "when I'm married" often
were not seriously interested in any particular man, I discovered. The ones who were rushing to get their college
work done, to spend three days a week off campus, sometimes had no real date they wanted to keep.
In my time, popular girls who spent many weekends at
Yale were often just as serious about their work as the
"brains." Even if you were temporarily, or quite seriously,
in love, during the week at college you lived the life of the
mind-and found it absorbing, demanding, sometimes exciting, always real. Could these girls who now must work so
much harder, have so much more ability to get into such a
college against the growing competition, really be so bored
with the life of the mind?
Gradually, I sensed the tension, the almost sullen protest,
the deliberate effort-or effort deliberately avoided-behind their cool fa«ades. Their boredom was not quite what
it seemed. It was a dftfense, a refusal to become involved.
As a woman who unconsciously thinks sex a sin is not there,
is somewhere else, as she goes through the motions of sex,
so these girls are somewhere else. They go through the motions, but they defend themselves against the impersonal
passions of mind and spirit that college might instill in them
-the dangerous nonsexual passions of the intellect.
A pretty sophomore explained to me:
The idea is to be casU-ai, very sophisticated. Don't be
too enthusiastic about your work or anything. People
who take things too seriously are more or less pitied or
laughed at. Like wanting to sing, being so intent about it
you make other people uncomfortable. An oddball.
Another girl elaborated:
They might feel sorry for you. I think you can be serious about your work and not be looked down upon as a
total inteiJectual, if you stop now and then and think

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

147

isn't this too hysterical. Because you do it with tongue in
cheek, it's O.K.
A girl with a fraternity pin on her pink sweater said:
Maybe we should take it more seriously. But nobody
wants to graduate and get into something where they
can't use it. If your husband is going to be an organization man, you can't be too educated. The wife is awfully
important for the husband's career. You can't be too
interested in art, or something like that.
A girl who had dropped out of honors in history told me:
I loved it. I got so excited about my work I would
sometimes go into the library at eight in the morning
and not come out till ten at night. I even thought I might
want to go on to graduate school or law school and really
use my mind. Suddenly, I was afraid of what would happen. I wanted to lead a rich full life. I want to marry,
have children, have a nice house. Suddenly I felt, what
am I beating my brains out for. So this year I'm trying to
lead a well-rounded life. I take courses, but I don't read
eight books and still feel like reading the ninth. I stop
and go to the movies. The other way was harder, and
more exciting. I don't know why I stopped. Maybe I just
lost courage.
The phenomenon does not seem confined to any particular college; one finds it among the girls in any college, or
department of a college, which stilI exposes students to the
life of the mind. A junior from a Southern university said:
Ever since I was a little girl, science has had a fascination for me. I was going to major in bacteriology and
go into cancer research. Now I've switched to home economics. I realized I don't want to go into something that
deep. If I went on, I'd have been one of those dedicated
people. I got so caught up in the first two years, I never
got out of the laboratory. I loved it, but I was missing
so many things. If the girls were off swimming in the afternoon, I'd be working on my smears and slides. There
aren't any girls in bacteriology here, sixty boys and me in

148

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the lab. I couldn't g~t on with the girls anymore who
don't understand science. I'm not so intensely interested
in home economics as I was in bacteriology, but I realize
it was better for me to change, and get out with people.
I realized I shouldn't be that serious. I'll go home and
work in a department store until I get married.
The mystery to me is not that these girls defend themselves against an involvement with the life of the mind, but
that educators should be mystified by their defense, or
blame it on the "student culture," as certain educators do.
The one lesson a girl could hardly avoid learning, if she
went to college between 1945 and 1960, was not to get interested, seriously interested, in anything besides getting
married and having children, if she wanted to be normal,
happy, adjusted, feminine, have a successful husband, successful children, and a normal, feminine, adjusted, successful sex life. She might have learned some of this lesson at
home, and some of it from the other girls in college, but
she also learned it, incontrovertibly, from those entrusted
with developing her critical, creative intelligence: her college professors.
A subtle and almost unnoticed change had taken place
in the academic culture for American women in the last
fifteen years: the new sex-direction of their educators. Under the influence of the feminine mystique, some coIlege
presidents and professors charged with the education of
women had become more concerned with their students' future capacity for sexual orgasm than with their future use
of trained inteIligence. In fact, some leading educator~ of
women began to concern themselves, conscientiously, with
protecting students from the temptation to use their critical, creative inteIligence-by the ingenious method of educating it not to be critical or creative. Thus higher education added its weight to the process by which American
women during this period were sbaped increasingly to their
biological function, decreasingly to the fulfillment of their
individual abilities. Girls who went to college could hardly
escape those bits and pieces of Freud and Margaret Mead,
or avoid a course in "Marriage and Family Life" with its
functional indoctrination on "bow to play tbe role of woman."

The new sex-direction of women's education was not,
however, confined to any specific course or academic de-

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

148

partment. It was implicit in all the social sciences; but more
than that, it became a part of education itself, not only because the English professor, or the guidance counselor, or
the college president read Freud and Mead, but because
education was the prime target of the new mystique--the
education of American girls with, or like, boys. If the
Freudians and the functionalists were right, educators were
guilty of defeminizing American women, of dooming them
to frustration as housewives and mothers, or to celibate
careers, to life without orgasm. It was a damning indictment; many college presidents and educational theorists
confessed their guilt without a murmur and fell into the
sex-directed line. There were a few cries of outrage, of
course, from the old-fashioned educators who still believed
the mind was more important than the marriage bed, but
they were often near retirement and soon to be replaced
by younger, more thoroughly sex-indoctrinated teachers, or
they were so wrapped up in their special subjects that they
had little say in over-all school policies.
The general educational climate was ripe for the new
sex-directed line, with its emphasis on adjustment. The old
aim of education, the development of intelligence through
vigorous mastery of the major intellectual disciplines, was
already in disfavor among the child-centered educators.
Teachers College at Columbia was the natural breeding
ground for educational functionalism. As psychology and
anthropology and sociology permeated the total scholarly
atmosphere, education for femininity also spread from
Mills, Stephens and the finishing schools (where its basis
was more traditional than theoretical) to the proudest bastions of the women's Ivy League, the colleges which pioneered higher education for women in America, and were
noted for their uncompromising intellectual standards.
Instead of opening new horizons and wider worlds to
able women, the sex-directed educator moved in to teach
them adjustment within the world of home and children.
Instead of teaching truths to counter the popular prejUdices
of the past, or critical ways of thinking against which prejudice cannot survive, the sex-directed educator handed girls
a sophisticated soup of uncritical prescriptions and presentiments, far more binding on the mind and prejudicial to
the future than all the traditional do's and don'ts. Most of
it wa~ done consciously and for the best of helpful reasons
by educators who really believed the mystique as the social

150

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

scientists handed it to them. If a male professor or college
president did not find this mystique a positive comfort, a
confirmation of his own prejudices, he still had no reason
not to believe it.
The few college presidents and professors who were
women either fell into' line or had their authority-as
teachers and as women--questioned. If they were spinsters, if they had not had babies, they were forbidden by
the mystique to speak as women. (Modern Woman: The
Lost Sex would forbid them even to teach.) The brilliant
scholar, who did not marry but inspired many generations
of college women to the pursuit of truth, was sullied as an
educator of women. She was not named president of the
women's college whose intellectual tradition she carried to
its highest point; the girls' education was put in the hands
of a handsome, husbandly man, more suitable to indoctrinating girls for their proper feminine role. The scholar often
left the women's college to head a department in a great
university, where the potential Ph.D.'s were safely men, for
whom the lure of scholarship, the pursuit of truth, was not
deemed a deterrent to sexual fulfillment.
In terms of the new mystique, the woman scholar was
suspect, simply by virtue of being one. She was not just
working to support her home; she must have been guilty of
an unfeminine commitment, to have kept working in her
field all those hard, grinding, ill-paid years to the Ph.D. In
self-defense she sometimes adopted frilly blouses or another innocuous version of the feminine protest. (At psychoanalytic conventions, an observer once noticed, the lady
analysts camouflage themselves with pretty, flowery, smartly feminine hats that would make the casual suburban
housewife look positively masculine.) M.D. or Ph.D., those
hats and frilly blouses say, let nobody question our femininity. But the fact is, their femininity was questioned. One
famous women's college adopted in defense the slogan,
"We are not educating women to be scholars; we are educating them to be wives and mothers." (The girls themselves finally got so tired of repeating this slogan in full
that they abbreviated it to "WAM.")
In building the sex-directed curriculum, not everyone
went as far as Lynn White, former president of Mills College, but if you started with the premise that women should
no longer be educated like men, but for their role as wom-

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

151

en, you almost had to end with his curriculum-which
amounted to replacing college chemistry with a course in
advanced cooking.
The sex-directed educator begins by accepting education's
responsibility for the frustration, general and sexual, of
American women.
On my desk lies a letter from a young mother, a few
years out of college:
"I have come to realize that I was educated to be a
successful man and must now learn by myself to be a
successful woman." The basic irrelevance of much of
what passes as women's education in America could not
be more compactly phrased. . . . The failure of our educational system to take into account these simple and
basic differences between the life patterns of average
men and women is at least in part resporu,ible for the
deep discontent and restlessness which affects millions of
women. . . .
It would seem that if women are to restore their selfrespect they must reverse the tactics of the older feminism which indignantly denied inherent differences in the
intellectual and emotional tendencies of men and women. Only by recognizing and insisting upon the importance
of such differences can women save themselves, in their
own eyes, of conviction as inferiors. 4
The sex-directed educator equates as masculine our
"vastly overrated cultural creativity," "our uncritical acceptance of 'progress' as good in itself," "egotistic individualism," "innovation," "abstract construction," "quantitative thinking"--of which, of course, the dread symbol is
either communism or the atom bomb. Against these,
equated as feminine, are "the sense of persons, of the immediate, of intangible qualitative relationships, an aversion
for statistics and quantities," "the intuitive," "the emotional ," and all the forces that "cherish" and "conserve" what
is "good, true, beautiful, useful, and holy."
A feminized higher education might include sociology, anthropology, psychology. ("These are studies little concerned
with the laurel-crowned genius of the strong man," praises
the educational protector of femininity. "They are devoted
to exploring the quiet and unspectacular forces of society
and of the mind. . . . They embrace the feminine preoc-

152

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

cupation with conserving and cherishing.") It would hardly
include either pure science (since abstract theory and quantitative thinking are unfeminine) or fine art, which is masculine, "flamboyant and abstract." The applied or minor
arts, however, are feminine: ceramics, textiles, work
shaped more by the hand than the brain. "Women love
beauty as much as men do but they want a beauty connected with the processes of living . . . the hand is as remarkable and as worthy of respect as the brain."
The sex-directed educator cites approvingly Cardinal
Tisserant's saying, "Women should be educated so that they
can argue with their husbands." Let us stop altogether professional training for women, he insists: all women must be
educated to be housewives. Even home economics and domestic science, as they are now taught at college, are masculine because "they have been pitched at the level of professional training."5
Here is a truly feminine education:
One may prophesy with confidence that as women begin to make their distinctive wishes felt in curricular
terms, not merely will every women's college and coeducational institution offer a firm nuclear course in the
Family, but from it will radiate curricular series dealing
with food and nutrition, textiles and clothing, health and
nursing, house planning and interior decoration, garden
design and applied botany, and child-development. . . .
Would it be impossible to present a beginning course in
foods as exciting and as difficult to work up after college, as a course in post-Kantian philosophy would be?
. . . Let's abandon talk of proteins, carbohydrates and
the like, save inadvertently, as for example, when we
point out that a British hyper-boiled Brussel sprout is
not merely inferior in flavor and texture, but in vitamine content. Why not study the theory and preparation
of a Basque paella, of a well-marinated shish kebob,
lamb kidneys sauteed in sherry, an authoritative curry,
the use of herbs, even such simple sophistications as serving cold artichokes with fresh milk. 6
The sex-directed educator is hardly impressed by the argument that a college curriculum should not be contaminated or diluted with subjects like cooking or manual training, which can be taught successfully at the high-school

THE SEX·DlRECTED EDUCATORS

153

level. Teach them to the girls in high school, and "with
greater intensity and imagination" again in college. Boys, also, should get some "family-minded" education, but not in
their valuable college time; early high-school manual training is enough to "enable them, in future years to work happily at a bench in the garage or in the garden, surrounded
by an admiring circle of children . . . or at the barbecue."7
This kind of education, in the name of life-adjustment,
became a fact on many campuses, high-school as well as
college. It was not dreamed up to turn back the growth of
women, but it surely helped. When American educators finally began to investigate the waste of our national resources of creative intelligence, they found that the lost
Einsteins, Schweitzers, Roosevelts, Edisons, Fords, Fermis,
Frosts were feminine. Of the brightest forty per cent of
U.S. high-school graduates, only half went on to college;
of the half who stopped, two out of three were girls. s When
Dr. James B. Conant went across the nation to find out
what was wrong with the American high school, he discovered too many students were taking easy how-to courses
which didn't really stretch their minds. Again, most of those
who should have been studying physics, advanced algebra,
analytic geometry, four years of language-and were not
-were girls. They had the intelligence, the special gift
which was not sex-directed, but they also had the sexdirected attitude that such studies were "unfeminine."
Sometimes a girl wanted to take a hard subject, but was
advised by a guidance counselor or teacher that it was a
waste of time-as, for instance, the girl in a good Eastern
high school who wanted to be an architect. Her counselor
strongly advised her against applying for admission anywhere in architecture, on the grounds that women are rare
in that profession, and she would never get in anyhow. She
stubbornly applied to two universities who give degrees in
architecture; both, to her amazement, accepted ber. Then
ber counselor told ber that even though she had been accepted, there was really no future for women in architecture; she would spend her life in a drafting room. She was
advised to go to a junior college where the work would be
much easier than in architecture and where she would learn
all she needed to know when she married. 9 .
The influence of sex-directed education was perhaps even

154

t:

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

more insidious on the high-school level than it was in the
colleges, for many girls who were subjected to it never got
to college. I picked up a lesson plan for one of these lifeadjustment courses now taught in junior high in the suburban county where I live. Entitled "The Slick Chick," it
gives functional "do's and don'ts for dating" to girls of eleven, twelve, thirteen-a kind of early or forced recognition
of their sexual function. Though many have nothing yet
with which to fill a brassiere, they are told archly not to
wear a sweater without one, and to be sure to wear slips so
boys can't see through their skirts. It is hardly surprising
that by the sophomore year, many bright girls in this high
school are more than conscious of their sexual fUDction,
bored with all the subjects in school, and have no ambition
other than to marry and have babies. One cannot help wondering (especially when some of these girls get pregnant as
high-school sophomores and marry at fifteen or sixteen) if
they have not been educated for their sexual function too
soon, while their other abilities go unrecognized.
This stunting of able girls from nonsexual growth is nationwide. Of the top ten per cent of graduates of Indiana
high schools in 1955, only fifteen per cent of the boys did
not continue their education: thirty-six per cent of the girls
did not go on.1 o In the very years in which higher education has become a necessity for almost everyone who wants
a real function in our exploding society, the proportion of
women among college students has declined, year by year.
In the fifties, women also dropped out of college at a faster
rate than the men: only thirty-seven per cent of the women
graduated, in contrast to fifty-five per cent of the men,u
By the sixties, an equal proportion of boys was dropping
out of college. 12 But, in this era of keen competition for
college seats, the one girl who enters college for every two
boys is "more highly selected," and less likely to be dropped
from college for academic failure. Women drop out, as
David Riesman ·says, either to marry or because they fear
too much education is a "marriage bar." The average age
of first marriage, in the last fifteen years, has dropped to
the youngest in the history of this country, the youngest in
any of the countries of the Western world, almost as young
as it used to be in the so-called underdeveloped countries.
In the new nations of Asia and Africa, with the advent of
science and education, the marriage age of women is now
rising. Today, thanks in part to the functional sex-direction

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

155

of women's education, the annual rate of population increase in the United States is among the highest in the world
-nearly three times that of the Western European nations,
nearly double Japan's, and close on the heels of Africa and
India. I3
The sex-directed educators have played a dual role in
this trend: by actively educating girls to their sexual function (which perhaps they would fulfill without such education, in a way less likely to prevent their growth in other
directions); and by abdicating their responsibility for the
education of women, in the strict intellectual sense. With or
without education, women are likely to fulfill their biological role, and experience sexual love and motherhood. But
without education, women or men are not likely to develop
deep interests that go bey8nd biology.
Education should, and can, make a person "broad in
outlook, and open to new experience, independent and disciplined in his thinking, deeply committed to some productive activity, possessed of convictions based on understanding of the world and on his own integration of personality."14 The main barrier to such growth in girls is their
own rigid preconception of woman's role, which sexdirected educators reinforce, either explicitly or by not facing their own ability, and responsibility, to break through it.
Such a sex-directed impasse is revealed in the massive
depths of that thousand-page study, The American College,
when "motivational factors in coIlege entrance" are analyzed from research among 1,045 boys and 1,925 girls. The
study recognizes that it is the need to be independent, and
find identity in society not primarily through the sex role
but through work, which makes boys grow in college. The
girl's evasion of growth in college is explained by the fact
that for a girl, identity is exclusively sexual; for the girl,
college itself is seen even by these scholars not as the key
to larger identity but as a disguised "outlet for sexual impulses."
The identity issue for the boy is primarily an occupational-vocational question, while self-definition for the
girl depends more directly on marriage. A number of
differences follow from this distinction. The girl's identity centers more exclusively on her sex-role--whose
wife will I be, what kind of a family will we have; while
the boy's self-definition forms about two nuclei, he will

156

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

be a husband and father (his sex-role identity) but he
will also and centrally be a worker. A related difference
follows and has particular importance at adolescence:
the occupational identity is by and large an issue of personal choice that can begin early and to which all of the
resources of rational and thoughtful planning can be directed. The boy can begin to think and plan for this aspect of identity early• . . . The sexual identity, so critical for feminine development, permits no such conscious
or orderly effort. It is a mysterious and romantic issue,
freighted with fiction, mystique, illusion. A girl may
learn certain surface skills and activities of the feminine
role, but she will be thought ungraceful and unfeminine
if her efforts toward femininity are too clearly conscious.
The real core of feminine settlement-living in intimacy
with a beloved man-is a future prospect, for which
there is no rehearsal. We find that boys and girls in adolescence have different approaches to the future; boys
are actively planning and testing for future work identities, apparently sifting alternatives in an effort to find
the role that will fit most comfortably their particular
skills and interests, temperamental characteristics and
needs. Girls, in contrast, are absorbed much more in
phantasy about boys and popularity, marriage and love.
The dream of college apparently serves as a substitute
for more direct preoccupation with marriage: girls who
do not plan to go to college are more explicit in their
desire to marry, and have a more developed sense of
their own sex role. They are more aware of and more
frankly concerned with sexuality. . . . The view of
phantasy as an outlet for sexual impulses follows the
general psychoanalytic conception that impulses denied
direct expression will seek some disguised mode of gratification.15
Thus, it did not surprise them that seventy per cent of
freshman women at a Midwestern university answered the
question, "What do you hope to get out of college?" with,
among other things, "the man for me." They also interpreted answers indicating a wish to "leave home," "travel,"
and answers relating to potential occupations which were
given by half tl1e girls as symbolizing "curiosity about the
sexual mysteries."

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

157

College and travel are alternatives to a more open interest in sexuality. Girls who complete their schooling
with high school are closer to assuming an adult sex role
in early marriages, and they have more developed conceptions of their sexual impulses and sex roles. Girls who
will enter college, on the other hand, will delay direct
realization and settlement of sexual identity, at least for
a while. During the interim, sexual energy is converted
and gratified through a phantasy system that focuses on
college, the glamour of college life, and a sublimation to
general sensuous experience. IS
Why do the educators view girls, and only girls, in such
oompletely sexual terms? Adolescent boys also have sexual
urges whose fulfillment may be delayed by college. But for
boys, the educators are not concerned with sexual "phantasy"; they are concerned with "reality," and boys are expected to achieve personal autonomy and identity by "committing themselves in the sphere of our culture that is most
morally worthwhile-the world of work-in which they
will be acknowledged as persons with recognized achievements and potentials." Even if the boys' own vocational
images and goals are not realistic in the beginning-and this
study showed that they were not-the sex-directed educators recognize, for boys, that motives, goals, interests, childish preconceptions, can change. They also recognize that,
for most, the crucial last chance for change is in college.
But apparently girls are not expected to change, nor are
they given the opportunity. Even at coeducational colleges,
very few girls get the same education as boys. Instead of
stimulating what psychologists have suggested might be a
"latent" desire for autonomy in the girls, the sex-directed
educators stimulated their sexual fantasy of fulfilling all desire for achievement, status, and identity vicariously
through a man. Instead of challenging the girls' childish,
rigid, parochial preconception of woman's role, they cater
to it by offering them a potpourri of liberal-arts courses,
suitable only for a wifely veneer, or narrow programs such
as "institutional dietetics," well beneath their abilities and
suitable only for a "stopgap" job between college and marriage.
As educators themselves admit, women's college training
does not often equip them to enter the business or profes-

158

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

sional world at a meaningful level, either at graduation or
afterward; it is not geared to career possibilities that would
justify the planning and work required for higher professional training. For women, the sex-directed educators say
with approval, college is the place to find a man. Presumably, if the campus is "the world's best marriage mart," as
one educator remarked, both sexes are affected. On college
campuses today, professor and student agree, the girls are
the aggressors in the marriage hunt. The boys, married or
not, are there to stretch their minds, to find their own
identity, to fill out their life plan; the girls are there only to
fulfill their sexual function.
Research reveals that ninety per cent or more of the rising number of campus wives who were motivated for marriage by "phantasy and the need to conform" are literally
working their husbands' way through college,17 The girl
who quits high school or college to marry and have a baby,
or to take a job to work her husband's way through, is
stunted from the kind of mental growth and understanding
that higher education is supposed to give, as surely as child
labor used to stunt the physical growth of children. She is
also prevented from realistic preparation and planning for a
career or a commitment that will utilize her abilities and
will be of some importance to society and herself.
During the period when the sex-directed educators were
devoting themselves to women's sexual adjustment and
femininity, economists charted a new and revolutionary
change in American employment: beneath the ebb and
flow of boom and recession, they found an absolute, spiraling decline in employment possibilities for the uneducated
and the unskilled. But when the government economists on
the "Womanpower" study visited college campuses, they
found the girls unaffected by the statistical probability that
they will spend twenty-five years or more of their adult
lives in jobs outside the home. Even when it is virtually
certain that most women will no longer spend their lives as
fuIJ-time housewives, the sex-directed educators have told
them not to plan for a career for fear of hampering their
sexual adjustment.
A few years ago, sex-directed education finaJIy infiltrated a famous woman's college, which had been proud in
the past of its large share of graduates who went on to play
leading roles in education and law and medicine, the arts
and sciences, government and social welfare. This college

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

159

had an ex-feminist woman president, who was perhaps beginning to suffer a slight guilt at the thought of all those
women educated like men. A questionnaire, sent to alumnae of all ages, indicated that the great majority were satisfied with their non-sex-directed education; but a minority
complained that their education had made them overly
conscious of women's rights and equality with men, too
interested in careers, possessed of a nagging feeling that they
should do something in the community, that they should at
least keep on reading, studying, developing their own abilities and interests. Why hadn't they been educated to be
happy housewives and mothers?
The guilty woman college president-guilty personally of
being a college president, besides having a large number of
children and a successful husband; guilty also of having
been an ardent femininist in her time and of having advanced a good way in her career before she married; barraged by the therapeutic social scientists who accused her
of trying to mold these young girls in her own impossible,
unrealistic, outmoded, energetic, self-demanding, visionary,
unfeminine image-introduced a functional course in marriage and the family, compulsory for all sophomores.
The circumstances which led to the college's decision,
two years later, to drop that functional course are shrouded in secrecy. Nobody officially connected with the college will talk. But a neighboring educator, a functionalist
crusader himself, said with a certain contempt for naive
wrong-thinking that they were evidently shocked over there
that the girls who took the functional course got married
so quickly. (The class of 1959 at that college included a
record number of 75 wives, nearly a quarter of the girls
who still remained in the class.) He told me calmly:
Why should it upset them, over there, that the girls
got married a little early? There's nothing wrong with
early marriage, with the proper preparation. I guess they
can't get over the old notion that women should be educated to develop their minds. They deny it, but one can't
help suspecting that they still believe in careers for women. Unfortunately, the idea that women go to college to
get a husband is anathema to some educators.
At the college in question, "Marriage and the Family" is
taught once again as a course in sociology, geared to critical

160

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

analysis of these changing social institutions, and not to
functional action, or group therapy. But in the neighboring institution, my professor-informant is second in command of a booming department of "family-life education,"
which is currently readying a hundred graduate students to
teach functional marriage courses in colleges, state teachers' colleges, junior colleges, community colleges, and high
schools across America. One senses that these new sexdirected educators do indeed think of themselves as crusaders~rusaders against the old nontherapeutic, nonfunctional values of the intellect, against the old, demanding,
sexless education, which confined itself to the life of the
mind and the pursuit of truth, and never even tried to help
girls pursue a man, have orgasms, or adjust. As my informant elaborated:
These kids are concerned about dating and sex, how
to get along with boys, is it all right to have premarital
relations. Maybe a girl is trying to decide about her major; she's thinking about a career, and she's also thinking
about marriage. You set up a role-playing situation to
help her work it out-so she sees the effect on the children. She sees she need not feel guilty about being just a
housewife.
There often is an air of defensiveness, when a sexdirected educator is asked to define, for the uninitiated,
the "functional approach." One told a reporter:
It's all very well to talk big talk-intellectual generalizations, abstract concepts, the United Nations-but
somewhere we have to start facing these problems of
interpersonal relations on a more modest scale. We have
to stop being so teacher-centered, and become studentcentered. It's not what you think they need, but what
they think they need. That's the functional approach.
You walk into a class, and your aim is no longer to cover
a certain content, but to set up an atmosphere that
makes your students feel comfortable and talk freely
about interpersonal relations, in basic terms, not highfalutin generalizations.
Kids tend in adolescence to be very idealistic. They
think they can acquire a different set of values, marry
a boy from a different background, and that it won't

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

161

matter later on. We make them aware it will matter, so
they won't walk so lightly into mixed marriages, and other traps.IS
The reporter asked why "Mate Selection," "Adjustment
to Marriage" and "Education for Family Living" are taught
in colleges at all, if the teacher is committed not to teach,
if no material is to be learned or covered, and if the only
aim is to help the student understand personal problems
and emotions. Mter surveying a number of marriage
courses for Mademoiselle, she concluded: "Only in America
would you overhear one undergraduate say to another with
total ingenuousness, 'You should have been in class today.
We talked about male role-playing and a couple of people
really opened up and got personal.' "
The point of role-playing, a technique adapted from
group therapy, is to get students to understand problems
"on a feeling level." Emotions more heady than those of
the usual college classroom are undoubtedly stirred up
when the professor invites them to "role-play" the feelings
of "a boy and a girl on their wedding night."
There is a pseudotherapeutic air, as the professor listens
patiently to endleS's --self-conscious student speeches about
personal feelings ("verbalizing") in the hopes of sparking a
"group insight." But though the functional course is not
group therapy, it is certainly an indoctrination of opinions
and values through manipulation of the students' emotions;
and in this manipulative disguise, it is no longer subject to
the critical thinking demanded in other academic disciplines.
The students take as gospel the bits and pieces assigned
in text books that explain Freud or quote Margaret Mead;
they do not have the frame of reference that comes from
the actual study of psychology or anthropology. In fact, by
explidtly banning the usual critical attitudes of college
study, these pseUdoscientific marriage courses give what is
often no more than popular opinion, the fiat of scientific
law. The opinion may be currently fashionable, or already
outdated, in psychiatric circles, but it is often merely a
prejudice, buttressed by psychological or sociological jargon
and well-chosen statistics to give the appearance of unquestionable scientific truth.
f
The discussion on premarital intercourse usually leads to
the scientific conclusion that it is wrong. One professor

162

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

builds up his case against sexual intercourse before marriage with statistics chosen to demonstrate that premarital
sexual experience tends to make marital adjustment more
difficult. The student will not know of the other statistics
which refute this point; if the professor knows of them, he
can in the functional marriage course feel free to disregard
them as unfunctional. ("Ours is a sick society. The students
need some accurate definitive kind of knowledge.") It is
functional "knowledge" that "only the exceptional woman
can make a go of a commitment to a career." Of course,
since most women in the past have not had careers, the
few who did were all "exceptional"-as a mixed marriage
is "exceptional," and premarital intercourse for a girl is exceptional. All are phenomena of less than 51 per cent. The
whole point of functional education often seems to be:
what 51 per cent of the population does today, 100 per
cent should do tomorrow.
So the sex-directed educator promotes a girl's adjustment
by dissuading her from any but the "normal" commitment
to marriage and the family. One such educator goes farther
than imaginary role-playing; she brings real ex-working
mothers to class to talk about their guilt at leaving their
children in the morning. Somehow, the students seldom
hear about a woman who has successfully broken convention-the young woman doctor whose sister handled her
practice when her babies were born, the mother who adjusted her babies' sleeping hours to her work schedule without problems, the happy Protestant girl who married a
Catholic, the sexually serene wife whose premarital experience did not seem to hurt her marriage. "Exceptional"
cases are of no practical concern to the functionalist,
though he often acknowledges scrupulously that there are
exceptions. (The "exceptional child," in educational jargon, bears a connotation of handicap: the blind, the crippled, the. reffirded, the genius, the defier of conventionanyone who is different from the crowd, in any way unique
-bears a common shame; he is "exceptional.") Somehow,
the student gets the point that she does not want to be the
"exceptional woman."
Conformity is built into life-adjustment education in
many ways. There is little or no intellectual chalIenge or
discipline involved in merely learning to adjust. The marriage course is the easiest course on almost every campus,
no matter how anxiously professors try to toughen it by as-

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

163

signing heavy reading and weekly reports. No one expects
that case histories (which when re:; d for no serious use are
not much more than psychiatric soap operas), role-playing,
talking about sex in class, or writing personal papers will
lead to critical thinking; that's not the point of functional
preparation for marriage.
This is not to say that the study of a social science, as
such, produces conformity in woman or man. This is hardly the effect when it is studied critically and motivated by
the usual aims of intellectual discipline, or when it is mastered for professional use. But for girls forbidden both professional and intellectual commitment by the new mystique,
the study of sociology, anthropology, psychology is often
merely "functionaL" And in the functional course itself,
the girls take those bits and pieces from Freud and Mead,
the sexual statistics, the role-playing insights, not only literally and out of context, but personally-to be acted upon
in their own lives. That, after all, is the whole point of lifeadjustment education. It can happen among adolescents in
a'most any course that involves basic emotional material.
It will certainly happen when the material is deliberately
u~ed not to build critical knowledge but to stir up personal
emotions. Therapy, in the orthodox psychoanalytic tradition. requires the suppression of critical thinking (intellectual resistance) for the proper emotions to come out and
be worked through. In therapy, this may work. But does
education work, mixed up with therapy? One course could
hardly be crucial, in any man or woman's life, but when it
is decided that the very aim of woman's education should
not be intellectual growth, but sexual adjustment, certain
questions could be very crucial.
One might ask: if an education ''''ared to the growth of
the human mind weakens femininity, will an education
geared to femininity weaken the gro~th of the mind? What
is femininity, if it can be destroved by an education which
makes the mind grow, or induced by not letting the mind
grow?
One might even ask a question in Freudian terms: what
happens when sex becomes not only id for women, but ego
and superego as well; when education, instead of developinp.: the self, is concentrated on developing the sexual functions? What happens when education gives new authority
to the feminine "shoulds"-whic h :>lready have the authority of tradition, convention, prejudice, popular opinion-

164

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

instead of giving women the power of critical thought, the
independence and autonomy to question blind authority,
new or old? At Pembroke, the women's college at Brown
University in Providence, R.I., a guest psychoanalyst was
recently invited to lead a buzz session on "what it means
to be a woman." The students seemed disconcerted when
the guest analyst, Dr. Margaret Lawrence, said, in simple,
un-Freudian English, that it was rather silly to tell women
today that their main place is in the home, when most of
the work women used to do--is now done outside the home,
and everyone else in the family spends most of his time
outside the house. Hadn't they better be educated to join
the rest of the family, out there in the world?
This, somehow, was not what the girls expected to hear
from a lady psychoanalyst. Unlike the usual functional, sexdirected lesson, it upset a conventional feminine "should."
It also implied that they should begin to make certain decisions of their own, about their education and their future.
The functional lesson is much more soothing to the unsure sophomore who has not yet quite made the break from
childhood. It does not defy the comfortable, safe conventions; it gives her sophisticated words for accepting her parents' view, the popular view, without having to figure out
views of her own. It also reassures her that she doesn't
have to work in college; that she can be lazy, follow impulse. She doesn't have to postpone present pleasure for
future goals; she doesn't have to read eight books for a history paper, take the tough physics course. It might give her
a masculinity complex. After all, didn't the book say:
Woman's intellectuality is to a large extent paid for by
the loss of valuable feminine qualities. . . . All observations point to the fact that the intellectual woman is
masculinized; in her, warm intuitive knowledge has yielded to cold unproductive thinking. 19
A girl doesn't have to be very lazy, very unsure, to take
the hint. Thinking, after all, is hard work. In fact, she would
have to do some very cold hard thinking about her own
warm, intuitive knowledge to challenge this authoritative
statement.
It is no wonder that several generations of American college girls of fine mind and fiery spirit took the message of
the sex-directed educators, and fled college and career to

THE SEX-DIRECTED EDUCATORS

165

marry and have babies before they became so "intellec.tual" that, heaven forbid, they wouldn't be able to enjoy
sex "in a feminine way."
Even without the help of sex-directed educators, the girl
growing up with brains and spirit in America learns soon
enough to watch her step, "to be like all the others," not to
be herself. She learns not to work too hard, think too often,
ask too many questions. In high schools, in coeducatioD.aI
colleges, girls are reluctant to speak out in class for fear of
being typed as "brains." This phenomenon has been borne
out by many studies;20 any bright girl or woman can document it from personal experience. Bryn Mawr girls have a
special term for the way they talk when boys are around,
compared to the real talk they can permit themselves when
they are not afraid to let their intelligence show. In the coeducational colleges, girls are regarded by others-and think
of themselves-primarily in terms of their sexual function
as dates, future wives. They "seek my security in him" instead of finding themselves, and each act of self-betrayal
tips the scale further away from identity to passive selfcontempt.
There are exceptions, of course. The Mellon study found
that some Vassar seniors, as compared with freshmen,
showed an enormous growth in four years-the kind of
growth toward identity and self-realization which scientists
now know takes place in people in their twenties and even
thirties, forties, and fifties, long after the period of physical growth is over. But many girls showed no signs of
growth. These were the ones who resisted, successfully, involvement with ideas, the academic work of the college,
the intellectual disciplines, the larger values. They resisted
intellectual development, self-development, in favor of being "feminine," not too brainy, not too interested, not too
different from the other girls. It was not that their actual
sexual interests interfered; in fact, the psychologists got the
impression that with many of these girls, "interest in men
and marriage is a kind of defense against intellectual development." For such girls, even sex is not real, merely a
kind of conformity. The sex-directed educator would find
no fault in this kind of adjustment. But in view of other
evidence, one might ask: could such an adjustment mask a
failure to grow that becomes finally a human deformity?
Several years ago a team of California psychologists who
had been following the development of 140 bright young-

166

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

sters noticed a sudden sharp drop in IQ curves in some of
the teenage records. When they investigated this, they found
that while most of the youngsters' curves remained at the
same high level, year after year, those whose curves
dropped were all girls. The drop had nothing to do with the
physiological changes of adolescence; it was not found in all
girls. But in the records of those girls whose intelligence
dropped were found repeated statements to the effect that
"it isn't too smart for a girl to be smart." In a very real
sense, these girls were arrested in their mental growth, at
age fourteen or fifteen, by conformity to the feminine
image. 21
The fact is, girls today and those responsible for their
education do face a choice. They must decide between adjustment, conformity, avoidance of conflict, therapy-or
individuality, human identity, education in the truest sense,
with all its pains of growth. But they do not have to face
the mistaken choice painted by the sex-directed educators,
with their dire warnings against loss of femininity and sexual frustration. For the perceptive psychologist who studied
the Vassar girls uncovered some startling new evidence
about the students who chose to become truly involved
with their education. It seems that those seniors who
showed the greatest signs of growth were more "masculine"
in the sense of being less passive and conventional; but they
were more "feminine" in inner emotional life, and the ability to gratify it. They also scored higher, far higher than as
freshmen, on certain scales commonly supposed to measure
neuroses. The psychologist commented: "We have come to
regard elevations on such scales as evidence that education
is taking place."22 He found girls with conflicts showed
more growth than the adjusted ones, who had no wish to
become independent. The least adjusted were also the more
developed-"already prepared for even further changes
and more independence." In summing up the Vassar study,
its director could not avoid the psychological paradox: education for women does make them less feminine, less adjusted-but it makes them grow.
Being less "feminine" is closely related to being more
educated and more mature. . . . It is interesting to
note, however, that Feminine Sensitivity, which may well
have sources in physiology and in early identifications,

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

167

does not decrease during the four years; "feminine" interests and feminine role behavior, i.e., conventionality
and passivity, can be understood as later and more superficial acquisitions, and, hence, more susceptible to
decrease as the individual becomes more mature and
more educated. . . .
One might say that if we were interested in stability
alone, we would do well to plan a program to keep freshmen as they are, rather than to try to increase their education, their maturity and their flexibility with regard to
sex-role behavior. Seniors are more unstable because
there is more to be stabilized, less certain of their identities because more possibilities are open to them. 23
At graduation, such women were, however, only at a
"halfway point" in their growth to autonomy. Their fate
depended on "whether they now enter a situation in which
they can continue to grow or whether they find some quick
but regressive means for relieving the stress." The flight into
marriage is the easiest, quickest way to relieve that stress.
To the educator, bent on women's growth to autonomy,
such a marriage is "regressive." To the sex-directed educator, it is femininity fulfilled.
A therapist at another college told me of girls who had
never committed themselves, either to their work or any
other activity of the college and who felt that they would
"go to pieces" when their parents refused to let them leave
college to marry the boys in whom they found "security."
When these girls, with help, finally applied themselves to
work-or even began to feel a sense of self by taking part
in an activity such as student government or the school
newspaper-they lost their desperate need for "security."
They finished college, worked, went out with more mature
young men, and are now marrying on quite a different emotional basis.
Unlike the sex-directed educator, this professional therapist felt that the girl who suffers almost to the point of
breakdown in the senior year, and who faces a personal
decision about her own future-faces even an irreconcilable conflict between the values and interests and abilities
her education has given her, and the conventional role of
housewife-is stilI "healthier" than the adjusted, calm, stable girl in whom education did not "take" at all and who

168

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

steps smoothly from her role as par-ents' child to husband's
wife, conventionally feminine, without ever waking up to
painful individual identity.
And yet the fact is, today most girls do not let their education "take"; they stop themselves before getting this close
to identity. I could see this in the girls at Smith, and the girls
I interviewed from other colleges. It was clear in the Vassar research. The Vassar study showed that just as girls begin to feel the conflicts, the growing pains of identity, they
stop growing. They more or less consciously stop their own
growth to play the feminine role. Or, to put it in another
way, they evade further experiences conducive to growth.
Until now this stunting or evasion of growth has been considered normal feminine adjustment. But when the Vassar
study followed women past the senior year-where they
were on the verge of this painful crucial step in personal
growth--out into life, where most of them were playing
the conventional feminine role, these facts emerged:

1. Twenty or twenty-five years out of college, these
women measured lower than seniors on the "Development Scale" which covered the whole gamut of
mental, emotional, and personal growth. They did not
lose all the growth achieved in college (alumnae
scored higher than freshmen) but-in spite of the psychological readiness for further growth at twenty-one
-they did not keep growing.
2. These women were, for the most part, adjusted as
suburban housewives, conscientious mothers, active in
their communities. But, except for the professional
career women, they had not continued to pursue deep
interests of their own. There seemed some reason to
believe that the cessation of growth was related to the
lack of deep personal interests, the lack of an individual commitment.
3. The women who, twenty years later, were most troubling to the psychologist were the most conventionally
feminine-the ones who were not interested, even in
college, in anything except finding a husband. 24
In the Vassar study there was one group of students who
in senior year neither suffered conflict to the point of nearbreakdown nor stopped their own growth to flee into marriage. These were students who were preparing for a pro-

THE SEX·DIRECTED EDUCATORS

169

fession; they had gained, in college, interests deep enough to
commit themselves to a career. The study revealed that
virtually all such students with professional ambitions plan
to marry, but marriage is for them an activity in which
they will voluntarily choose to participate rather than
something that is necessary for any sense of personal identity. Such students have a clear sense of direction, a greater
degree of independence and self-confidence than most.
They may be engaged or deeply in love, but they do not
feel they must sacrifice their own individualities or their
career ambitions if they wish to marry. With these girls,
the psychologists did not get the impression, as they did
with so many, that interest in men and in marriage was a
kind of defense against intellectual development. Their interest in some particular man WIlS real. At the same time,
it did not interfere with their education.
But the degree to which the feminine mystique has brainwashed American educators was shown when the director
of the Vassar study described to a panel of his colleagues
such a girl, who "not only makes top grades, but in whose
case there is high probability that a scholarly or professional career will be followed."
Julie B's mother is a teacher and scholar and the driving force in the family. . . . Mother gets after father
for being too easy-going. Father doesn't mind if his wife
and daughter have highbrow tastes and ideas, only such
are not for him. Julie becomes out-door girl, nonconformist, dominates her older brother, but is consciencestricken if she doesn't do required reading or if grade
average slips. Sticks to her intention to do graduate work
and become teacher. Older brother now college teacher
and Julie, herself a graduate student now, is married to a
graduate student in natural science.
When she was a freshman we presented her interview
data, without interpretation, to a group of psychiatrists,
psychologists, social scientists. Our idea of a really promising girl. Common question: "What's wrong with her?"
Common opinion: she would need psychotherapy. Actually she got engaged to her budding scientist in her
sophomore year, became increasingly conscious of herself as an intellectual and outsider, but still couldn't neglect her work. "If only I could flunk something," she
said.

170

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

It takes a very daring educator today to attack the sexdirected line, for he must challenge, in essence, the conventional image of femininity. The image says that women
are passive, dependent, conformist, incapable of critical
thought or original contribution to society; and in the best
traditions of the self-fulfilling prophecy, sex-directed education continues to make them so, as in an earlier era. lack
of education made them so. No one asks whether a passively feminine, uncomplicated, dependent woman-in a primitive village or in a suburb-actually enjoys greater happiness, greater sexual fulfillment than a woman who commits herself in college to serious interests beyond the home.
No one, until very recently when Russians orbited moons
and men in space, asked whether adjustment should be
education's aim. In fact, the sex-directed educators, so bent
on women's feminine adjustment, could gaily cite the most
ominous facts about American housewives-their emptiness, idleness, boredom, alcoholism, drug addiction, disintegration to fat, disease, and despair after forty, when their
sexual function has been filled-without deviating a bit
from their crusade to educate all women to this sole end.
So the sex-directed educator disposes of the thirty years
women are likely to live after forty with three blithe proposals:

1. A course in "Law and Order for the Housewife" to
enable her to deal, as a widow, with insurances, taxes, wills,
investments.
2. Men might retire earlier to help keep their wives company.
3. A brief fling in "volunteer community services, politics, the arts or the like"-though, since the woman will
be untrained the main value will be personal therapy. "To
choose only one example, a woman who wants some really
novel experience may start a campaign to rid her city or
country of that nauseous eczema of our modern world, the
billboard.
"The billboards will remain and multiply like bacteria infesting the landscape, but at least she will have had a vigorous adult education course in local politics. Then she can
relax and devote herself to the alumnae activities of the
institution from which she graduated. Many a woman approaching middle years has found new vigor and enthusiasm in identifying herself with the on-going life of her col-

THE SEX-DIRECTED EDUCATORS

171

lege and in expanding her maternal instincts, now that her
own children are grown, to encompass the new generations
of students which inhabit its campus."25
She could also take a part-time job, he said, but she
shouldn't take work away from men who must feed their
families, and, in fact, she won't have the skills or experience for a very "exciting" job.
. • . there is great demand for experienced and reliable women who can relieve younger women of family
responsibilities on regular days or afternoons, so that
they may either develop community interests or hold
part-time jobs of their own. . .. There is no reason
why women of culture and breeding, who in any case
for years have probably done most of their own housework, should recoil from such arrangements. 26
If the feminine mystique has not destroyed her sense of
humor, a woman might laugh at such a candid description
of the life her expensive sex-directed education fits her for:
an occasional alumnae reunion and someone else's housework. The sad fact is, in the era of Freud and functionalism and the feminine mystique, few educators escaped such
a sex-distortion of their own values. Max Lerner,27 even
Riesman in The Lonely Crowd, suggested that women need
not seek their own autonomy through productive contribution to society-they might better help their husbands hold
on to theirs, through play. And so sex-directed education
segregated recent generations of able American women as
surely as separate-but-equal education segregated able
American Negroes from the opportunity to realize their full
abilities in the mainstream of American life.
It does not explain anythiag to say that in this era of
conformity colleges did not really educate anybody. The
Jacob report,28 which leveled this indictment against American colleges generally, and even the more sophisticated indictment by Sanford and his group, does not recognize that
the colleges' failure to educate women for an identity beyond their sexual role was undoubtedly a crucial factor in
perpetuating, if not creating, that conformity which educators now so fashionably rail against. For it is impossible to
educate women to devote themselves so early and completely to their sexual role-women who, as Freud said,

172

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

can be very active indeed in achieving a passive end-without pulling men into the same comfortable trap. In effect,
sex-directed education led to a lack of identity in women
most easily solved by early marriage. And a premature
commitment to any role-marriage or vocation-closes off
the experiences, the testing, the failures and successes in
various spheres of activity that are necessary for a person
to achieve full maturity, individual identity.
The danger of stunting of boys' growth by early domesticity was recognized by the sex-directed educators. As
Margaret Mead put it recently:
Early domesticity has always been characteristic of
most savages, of most peasants and of the urban poor.
. . . If there are babies, it means, you know, the father's
term paper gets all mixed up with the babies' bottle.
• . . Early student marriage is domesticating boys so
early they don't have a chance for full intellectual development. They don't have a chance to give their entire
time, not necessarily to study in the sense of staying in
the library-but in the sense that the married students
don't have time to experience, to think, to sit up all night
in bull sessions, to develop as individuals. This is not only
important for the intellectuals, but also the boys who are
going to be the future statesmen of the country and lawyers and doctors and all sorts of professional men.29
But what of the girls who will never even write the term
papers because of the baby's bottle? Because of the feminine mystique, few have seen it as a tragedy that they thereby trap themselves in that one passion, one occupation,
one role for life. Advanced educators in the early 1960's
have their own cheerful fantasies about postponing women's education until after they have had their babies; they
thereby acknowledge that they have resigned themselves
almost unanimously to the early marriages, which continue
unabated.
But by choosing femininity over the painful growth to
full identity, by never achieving the hard core of self that
comes not from fantasy but from mastering reality, these
girls are doomed to suffer ultimately that bored, diffuse feeling of purposelessness, non-existence, non-involvement with
the world that can be called anomie, or lack of identity,
or merely felt as the problem that bas no name.

THE SEX-DIRECTED EDUCATORS

173

Still, it is too easy to make education the scapegoat_
Whatever the mistakes of the sex-directed educators, other
educators have fought a futile, frustrating rear-guard battle
trying to make able women "envision new goals and grow
by reaching for them." In the last analysis, millions of able
women in this free land chose, themselves, not to use the
door education could have opened for them. The choiceand the responsibility-for the race back home was finally
their own.

E I GH T
THE MISTAKEN CHOICE
A MYSTIQUE DOES NOT COMPEL

ITS OWN ACCEP-

tance. For the feminine mystique to have "brainwashed"
American women of nonsexual human purposes for more
than fifteen years, it must have filled real needs in those
who seized on it for others and those who accepted it for
themselves. Those needs may not have been the same in all
the women or in all the purveyors of the mystique. But
there were many needs, at this particular time in America,
that made us pushovers for the mystique; needs so compelling that we suspended critical thought, as one does in
the face of an intuitive truth. The trouble is, when need is
strong enough, intuition can also lie.
There was, just before the feminine mystique took hold
in America, a war, which fol1owed a depression and ended
with the explosion of an atom bomb. After the loneliness
of war and the unspeakableness of the bomb, against the
frightening uncertainty, the cold immensity of the changing
world, women as well as men sought the comforting reality
of home and children. In the foxholes, the Gl's had pinned
up pictures of Betty Grable, but the songs they asked to
hear were lullabies. And when they got out of the army
they were too Qld to go home to their mothers. The needs
of sex and love are undeniably real in men and women,
boys and girls, but why at this time did they seem to so
many the only needs?
We were all vulnerable, homesick, lonely, frightened. A
pent-up hunger for marriage, home, and children was felt
simultaneously by several different generations; a hunger
which, in the prosperity of postwar America, everyone
could suddenly satisfy. The young GI, made older than his
years by the war, could meet his lonely need for love and
mother by re-creating his childhood home. Instead of dating many girls until college and profession were achieved,
he could marry on the GI bill, and give his own babies the
tender mother love he was no longer baby enough to seek

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

175

for himself. Then there were the slightly older men: men
of twenty-five whose marriages had been postponed by the
war and who now felt they must make up for lost time;
men in their thirties, kept first by depression and then by
war from marrying, or if married, from enjoying the comforts of home.
For the girls, these lonely years added an extra urgency
to their search for love. Those who married in the thirties
saw their husbands off to war; those who grew up in the
forties were afraid, with reason, that they might never have
the love, the homes and children which few women would
willingly miss. When the men came back, there was a headlong rush into marriage. The lonely years when husbands or
husbands-to-be were away at war-or could be sent away
at a bomb's fall-made women particularly vulnerable to
the feminine mystique. They were told that the cold dimension of loneliness which the war had added to their
lives was the necessary price they had to pay for a career,
for any interest outside the home. The mystique spelled
out a choice--Iove, home, children, or other goals and purposes in life. Given such a choice, was it any wonder that
so many American women chose love as their whole purpose?
The baby boom of the immediate postwar years took
place in every country. But it was not permeated, in most
other countries, with the mystique of feminine fulfillment.
It did not in other countries lead to the even greater baby
boom of the fifties, with the rise in teenage marriages and
pregnancies, and the increase in family size. The number of
American women with three or more children doubled in
twenty years. And educated women, after the war, led all
the others in the race to have more babies. 1 (The generation before mine, the women born between 1910 and 1919,
showed the change most sharply. During their twenties,
their low pregnancy rate led to warnings that education was
going to wipe out the human race; in their thirties, they
suddenly showed a sharp increase in pregnancies, despite
the lowered biological capacity that makes the pregnancy
rate decline with age.)
More babies are always born after wars. But today the
American popUlation explosion comes in large part from ,
teenage marriages. The number of children born to teenagers rose 165 per cent between 1940 and 1957, according
to Metropolitan Life Insurance figures. The girls who

176

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

would normally go to college but leave or forgo it to marry
(eighteen and nineteen are the most frequent ages of marriage of American girls today; half of all American women
are married by twenty) are products of the mystique. They
give up education without a qualm, truly believing that they
will find "fulfillment" as wives and mothers. I suppose a
girl today, who knows from statistics or merely from observation that if she waits to marry until she finishes college, or trains for a profession, most of the men will be
married to someone else, has as much reason to fear she
may miss feminine fulfillment as the war gave the girls in
the forties. But this does not explain why they drop out of
college to support their husbands, while the boys continue
with their education.
It has not happened in other countries. Even in countries
where, during the war, many more men were killed and
more women were forced forever to miss the fulfillment
of marriage, women did not run home again in panic. And
in the other countries today, girls are as hungry as boys for
the education that is the road to the future.
War made women particularly vulnerable to the mystique, but the war, with all its frustrations, was not the only
reason they went home again. Nor can it be explained by
"the servant problem," which is an excuse the educated
woman often gives to herself. During the war, when the
cooks and maids went to work in the war plants, the servant problem was even more severe than in recent years.
But at that time, women of spirit often worked out unconventional domestic arrangements to keep their professional
commitments. (l knew two young wartime mothers who
pooled forces while their husbands were overseas. One, an
actress, took both babies in the morning, while the other
did graduate work; the second took over in the afternoon,
when the other had a rehearsal or matinee. I also knew a
woman who switched her baby's night-and-day so he would
sleep at a neighbor's house during the hours she was at
medical school.) And in the cities, then, the need for nurseries and day-care centers for the children of working
mothers was seen, and met.
But in the years of postwar femininity, even women who
could afford, and find, a full-time nurse or housekeeper
chose to take care of house and children themselves. And
in the cities, during the fifties, the nursery and day-care
centers for the children of working mothers all but disap-

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

177

peared; the very suggestion of their need brought hysterical
outcries from educated housewives as well as the purveyors
of the mystique. 2
I
When the war ended, of course, GI's came back to take
the jobs and fill the seats in colleges and universities that
for a while had been occupied largely by girls. For a short
time, competition was keen and the resurgence of the old
anti-feminine prejudices in business and the professions
made it difficult for a girl to keep or advance in a job. This
undoubtedly sent many women scurrying (or the cover of
marriage and home. Subtle discrimination against women,
to say nothing of the sex wage differential, is still an unwritten law today, and its effects are almost as devastating
and as hard to fight as the flagrant opposition faced by the
feminists. A woman researcher on Time magazine, for instance, cannot, no matter what her ability, aspire to be a
writer; the unwritten law makes the men writers and editors, the women researchers. She doesn't get mad; she likes
her job, she likes her boss. She is not a crusader for women's rights; it isn't a case for the Newspaper Guild. But it is
discouraging nevertheless. If she is never going to get anywhere, why keep on?
Women were often driven embittered from their chosen
fields when, ready and able to handle a better job, they
were passed over for a man. In some jobs a woman had to
be content to do the work while the man got the credit. Or
if she got the better job, she had to face the bitterness and
hostility of the man. Because the race to get ahead, in the
big organization, in every profession in America, is so terribly competitive for men, competition from women is
somehow the last straw-and much easier to fight by simply evoking that unwritten law. During the war, women's
abilities, and the inevitable competition, were welcome; after the war they were confronted with that polite but impenetrable curtain of hostility. It was easier for a woman to
love and be loved, and have an excuse not to compete with
men.
Still, during the depression, able, spirited girls sacrificed,
fought prejudice, and braved competition in order to pursue their careers, even though there were fewer places to
compete for. Nor did many see any conflict between career
and love. In the prosperous postwar years, there were
plenty of jobs, plenty of places in all the professions; there
was no real need to give up everything for love and mar-

•

178

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

riage. The less-educated girls, after all, did not leave the
factories and go back to being maids. The proportion of
women in industry has steadily increased since the warbut not of women in careers or professions requiring training, effort, personal commitment. 3 "I live through my husband and children," a frank member of my own generation
told me. "It's easier that way. In this world now, it's easier
to be a woman, if you take advantage of it."
In this sense, what happened to women is part of what
happened to all of us in the years after the war. We found
excuses for not facing the problems we once had the courage to face. The American spirit fell into a strange sleep;
men as well as women, scared liberals, disillusioned radicals, conservatives bewildered and frustrated by changethe whole nation stopped growing up. All of us went back
into the warm brightness of home, the way it was when we
were children and slept peacefully upstairs while our parents read, or played bridge in the living room, or rocked on
the front porch in the summer evening in our home towns.
Women went home again just as men shrugged off the
bomb, forgot the concentration camps, condoned corruption, and fell into helpless conformity; just as the thinkers
avoided the complex larger problems of the postwar world.
It was easier, safer, to think about love and sex than about
communism, McCarthy, and the uncontrolled bomb. It was
easier to look for Freudian sexual roots in man's behavior,
his ideas, and his wars than to look critically at his society
and act constructively to right its wrongs. There was a kind
of personal retreat, even on the part of the most farsighted, the most spirited; we lowered our eyes from the
horizon, and steadily contemplated our own navels.
We can see all this now, in retrospect. Then, it was easier to build the need for love and sex into the end-all purpose of life, avoiding personal commitment to truth in a
catch-all commitment to "home" and "family." For the social worker, the psychologist and the numerous "family"
counselors, analytically oriented therapy for private patients on personal problems of sex, personality, and interpersonal relations was safer and more lucrative than probing too deeply for the common causes of man's suffering.
If you no longer wanted to think about the whole of mankind, at least you could "help" individuals without getting
into trouble. Irwin Shaw, who once goaded the American
conscience on the great issues of war and peace and racial

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

179

prejudice now wrote about sex and adultery; Norman
Mailer and the young beatnik writers confined their revolutionary spirit to sex and kicks and drugs and advertising
themselves in four-letter words. It was easier and more
fashionable for writers to think about psychology than politics, about private motives than public purposes. Painters
retreated into an abstract expressionism that flaunted discipline and glorified the evasion of meaning. Dramatists
reduced human purpose to bitter, pretentious nonsense:
"the theater of the absurd." Freudian thought gave this
whole process of escape its dimension of endless, tantalizing, intellectual mystery: process within process, meaning
hidden within meaning, until meaning itself disappeared and
the hopeless, dull outside world hardly existed at all. As a
drama critic saia, in a rare note of revulsion at the stage
world of Tennessee Williams, it was as if no reality remained for man except his sexual perversions, and the fact
that be loved and hated his mother.
The Freudian mania in the American culture, apart
from the practice of psychotherapy itself, also filled a real
need in the forties and fifties: the need for an ideology, a
national purpose, an application of the mind to the problems of people. Analysts themselves have recently suggested
that the lack of an ideology or national purpose may be
partially responsible for the personal emptiness which sends
many men and women into psychotherapy; they are actually looking for an identity which therapy alone can never
give. The religious revival in America coincided with the
rush to psychoanalysis, and perhaps came about for the
same reason-behind the search for identity, or for shelter,
a vacuum of larger purpose. It is significant that many
ministers now spend much of their time in giving psychotherapy-pastoral counseling-to members of their congregations. Do they thereby also evade the larger questions,
the real search?
When I was interviewing on college campuses in the late
fifties, chaplains and sociologists alike testified to the
younger generation's "privatism." A major reason for the
early marriage movement, they felt, was that the young
saw no other true value in contemporary society. It's easy
for the professional social critic to blame the younger generation for cynical preoccupation with private pleasure and
material security~r for the empty negativism of beatnikery. But if their parents, teachers, preachers, have ab-

180

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

dicated purposes larger than personal emotional adjustment, material success, security, what larger purpose can
the young learn?
The five babies, the movement to suburbia, do-it-yourself and even beatnikery filled homely needs; they also
took the place of those larger needs and purposes with
which the most spirited in this nation were once concerned.
"I'm bored with politics . . . there's nothing you can do
about it anyhow." When a dollar was too cheap, and too
expensive, to live a life for, and your whole society seemed
concerned with little else, the family and its loves and problems-this, at least, was good and true. And the literal
swallowing of Freud gave the illusion that it was more important than it really was for the whole of suffering society,
as the literal parroting of Freudian phrases deluded suffering individuals into believing that they were cured, when
underneath they had not yet even faced their real troubles.
Under the Freudian microscope, however, a very different concept of family began to emerge. Oedipus conflict and
sibling rivalry became household words. Frustration was as
great a peril to childhood as scarlet fever. And singled out
for special attention was the "mother." It was suddenly discovered that the mother could be blamed for almost everything. In every case history of troubled child; alcoholic,
suicidal, schizophrenic, psychopathic, neurotic adult; impotent, homosexual male; frigid, promiscuous female; ulcerous, asthmatic, and otherwise disturbed American, could
be found a mother. A frustrated, repressed, disturbed, martyred, never satisfied, unhappy woman. A demanding, nagging, shrewish wife. A rejecting, overprotecting, dominating
mother. World War II revealed that millions of American
men were psychologically incapable of facing the shock of
war, of facing life away from their "moms." Clearly something was "wrong" with American women.
By unfortunate coincidence, this attack against mothers
came about at the same time that American women were
beginning to use the rights of their emancipation, to go in
increasing numbers to college and professional schools, to
rise in industry and the professions in inevitable competition with men. Women were just beginning to playa part in
American society that depended not on their sex, but on
their individual abilities. It was apparent to the naked eye,
obvious to the returning OJ, that these American women
were indeed more independent, strong-minded, assertive of

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

181

will and opinion, less passive and feminine than, for instance, the German and Japanese girls who, the GI's
boasted, "even washed our backs for us." It was less apparent, however, that these girls were different from their
mothers. Perhaps that is why, by some strange distortion
of logic, all the neuroses of children past and present were
blamed on the independence and· individuality of this new
generation of American girls-independence and individuality which the housewife-mothers of the previous generation had never had.
The evidence seemed inescapable: the figures on the
psychiatric discharges in the war and the mothers in their
case histories; the early Kinsey figures on the incapacity of
American women to enjoy sexual orgasm, especially educated women; the fact that so many women were frustrated, and took it out on their husbands and children.
More and more men in America did feel inadequate, impotent. Many of those first generations of career women did
miss love and children, resented and were resented by the
men they competed with. More and more American men,
women, children were going to mental hospitals, clinics,
psychiatrists. All this was laid at the doorstep of the frustrated American mother, "masculinized" by her education,
prevented by her insistence on equality and independence
from finding sexual fulfillment as a woman.
It all fitted so neatly with the Freudian rationale that
no one stopped to investigate what these pre-war mothers
were really like. They were indeed frustrated. But the
mothers of the maladjusted soldiers, the insecure and impotent postwar males, were not independent educated career women, but self-sacrificing, dependent, martyredhousewife "morns."
In 1940, less than a fourth of American women worked
outside the home; those who did were for the most part
unmarried. A minuscule 2.5 per cent of mothers were "career women." The mothers of the GI's who were 18-30 in
1940 were born in the nineteenth century, or the early
1900's, and were grown up before American women won
the right to vote, or enjoyed the independence, the sexual
freedom, the educational or the career opportunities of the
twenties. By and large, these "morns" were neither feminists, nor products of feminism, but American women
leading the traditional feminine life of housewife and mother. Was it really education, career dreams, independence,

182

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

which made the "moms" frustrated, and take it out on their
children? Even a book that helped build the new mystique
-Edward Strecker's Their Mothers' Sons--confirms the
fact that the "moms" were neither career women, nor feminists, nor used their education, if they had it; they lived
for their children, they had no interests beyond home; children, family, or their own beauty. In fact, they fit the very
image of the feminine mystique.
Here is the "mom" whom Dr. Strecker, as consultant to
the Surgeon General of the Army and Navy, found guilty in
the case histories of the vast majority of the 1,825,000 men
rejected for military service because of psychiatric disorders, the 600,000 discharged from the Army for neuropsychiatric reasons, and the 500,000 more who tried to
evade the draft-almost 3,000,000 men, out of 15,000,000
in the service, who retreated into psychoneurosis, often
only a few days after induction, because they lacked maturity, "the ability to face life, Jive with others, think for
themselves and stand on their own two feet."
A mom is a woman whose maternal behavior is motivated by the seeking of emotional recompense for the
buffets which life has dealt her own ego. In her relationship with her children, every deed and almost every
breath are designed unconsciously but exclusively to absorb her children emotionally and to bind them to her
securely. In order to achieve this purpose, she must
stamp a pattern of immature behavior on her children .
. . . The mothers of men and women capable of facing
life maturely are not apt to be the traditional mom type.
More likely mom is sweet, doting, self-sacrificing. . . .
takes no end of trouble and spares herself no pains in
selecting clothes for her grown-up children. She supervises the curl of their hair, the selection of their friends
and companions, their sports, and their social attitudes
and opinions. By and large she does all their thinking for
them . . . [This domination] is sometimes hard and arbitrary, more often soft, persuasive and somewhat devious. . . . Most frequent is the method of indirection in
which in some way the child is made to feel that mom's
hurt and trying ever so hard to conceal that hurt. The
soft method is infinitely more successful in blocking
manifestations of youthful thought and action. . . .
The "self-sacrificing" mom when hard-pressed may

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

183

admit hesitatingly that perhaps she does look "played
out" and is actually a bit tired, but she chirps brightly
"What of it?" . . . The implication is that she does not
care how she looks or feels, for in her heart there is the
unselfish joy of service. From dawn until late at night
she finds her happiness in doing for her children. The
house belongs to them. It must be "just so"; the meals
on the minute, hot and tempting. Food is available at all
hours. . . . No buttons missing from garments in this
orderly house. Everything is in its proper place. Mom
knows where it is. Uncomplainingly, gladly, she puts
things where they belong after the children have strewn
them about, here, there, and everywhere. . . . Anything the children need or want, mom will cheerfully get
for them. It is the perfect home . . . . Failing to find a
comparable peaceful haven in the outside world, it is
quite likely that one or more of the brood will remain in
or return to the happy home, forever enwombed. 4
The "mom" may also be "the pretty addlepate" with her
cult of beauty, clothing, cosmetics, perfumes, hairdos, diet
and exercise, or "the pseudo-intellectual who is forever taking courses and attending lectures, not seriously studying one
subject and informing herself thoroughly about it, but one
month mental hygiene, the next economics, Greek architecture, nursery schools." These were the "moms" of the
sons who could not be men at the front or at home, in bed
or out, because they really wanted to be babies. All these
moms had ODe thing in common:
. . . the emotional satisfaction, almost repletion, she derives from keeping her children paddling ahout in a kind
of psychological amniotic fluid rather than letting them
swim away with the bold and decisive strokes of maturity from the emotional maternal womb. . . . Being
immature herself, she breeds immaturity in her children
and, by and large, they are doomed to lives of personal
and social insufficiency and unhappiness . . .5
I quote Dr. Strecker at length because he was, oddly
enough, one of the psychiatric authorities most frequently
cited in the spate of postwar articles and speeches condemning American women for their lost femininity-and
bidding them rush back home again and devote their lives

184

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

to their children. Actually, the moral of Strecker's cases
was just the opposite; those immature sons had mothers
who devoted too much of their lives to their children,
mothers who had to keep their children babies or they
themselves would have no lives at all, mothers who never
themselves reached or were encouraged to reach maturity:
"the state or quality of being mature; ripeness, full development . . . independence of thought and action"-the
quality of being fully human. Which is not quite the same
as femininity.
Facts are swallowed by a mystique in much the same
way, I guess, as the strange phenomenon by which hamburger eaten by a dog becomes dog, and hamburger eaten
by a human becomes human. The facts of the GI's neurosis became, in the 1940's, "proof' that American women
had been seduced from feminine fulfillment by an education geared to career, independence, equality with men,
"self-realization at any cost"--even though most of these
frustrated women were simply housewives. By some fascinating paradox, the massive evidence of psychological damage done to boys and girls by frustrated mothers who devoted all their days to filling children's needs was twisted
by the feminine mystique to a summons to the new generation of girls to go back home and devote their days to filling children's needs.
Nothing made that hamburger more palatable than the
early Kinsey figures which showed that sexual frustration
in women was related to their education. Chewed and rechewed was the horrendous fact that between 50 and 85
per cent of the college women polled had never experienced sexual orgasm, while less than one-fifth of highschool educated women reported the same problem. As
Modern Woman: The Lost Sex interpreted these early
Kinsey returns:

Among women with a grade school education or less,
complete failure to achieve orgasm diminished toward
the vanishing point. Dr. Kinsey and his colleagues reported that practically 100% full orgastic reaction had
been found among uneducated Negro women . . . . The
psychosexual rule that begins to take form, then, is this:
the more educated the woman is, the greater chance
there is of sexual disorder, more or less severe . . .6

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

185

Nearly a decade went by before publication of the full
Kinsey report on women, which completely contradicted
those earlier findings. How many women realize, even now,
that Kinsey's 5,940 case histories of American women
showed that the number of females reaching orgasm in
marriage, and the number of females reaching orgasm nearly 100 per cent of the time, was related to education, but
the more educated the woman, the greater chance of sexual fulfillment. The woman with only a grade-school education was more likely never to experience orgasm, while
the woman who finished college, and who went on to
graduate or professional school, was far more likely to
achieve full orgasm nearly 100 per cent of the time. In
Kinsey's words:
We found that the number of females reaching orgasm within any five-year period was rather distinctly
higher among those with upper educational backgrounds.
• • . In every period of marriage, from the first until at
least the fifteenth year, a larger number of the females
in the sample who had more limited educational backgrounds had completely failed to respond to orgasm in
their marital coitus, and a small number of the better
educated females had so completely failed. . . •
These data are not in accord with a preliminary, unpublished calculation which we made some years ago. On
the basis of a smaller sample, and on the basis of a less
adequate method of calculation, we seemed to find a
larger number of the females of the lower educational
levels responding to orgasm in the marital coitus. These
data now need correction • • •7
But the mystique nourished by the early incorrect figures
was not so easily corrected.
And then there were the frightening figures and case histories of children abandoned and rejected because their
mothers worked. How many women realize, even now, that
the babies in those publicized cases, who withered away
from lack of maternal affection, were not the children of
educated, middle-class mothers who left them in others'
care certain hours of the day to practice a profession or
write a poem, or fight a political battle-but truly abandoned children: foundlings often deserted at birth by unwed mothers and drunken fathers, children who never had

186

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

a home or tender loving care. Headlines were made by any
study which implied that working mothers were responsible
for juvenile delinquency, school difficulties or emotional
disturbance in their children. Recently a psychologist, Dr.
Lois Meek Stolz, of Stanford University, analyzed all the
evidence from such studies. She discovered that at the present time, one can say anything-good or bad-about children of employed mothers and support the statement by
some research findings. But there is no definitive evidence
that children are less happy, healthy, adjusted, because
their mothers work.s
The studies that show working women to be happier,
better, more mature mothers do not get much pUblicity.
Since juvenile delinquency is increasing, and more women
work or "are educated for some kind of intellectual work,"
there is surely a direct cause-and-effect relationship, one
says. Except that evidence indicates there is not. Several
years ago, much publicity was given to a study comparing
matched groups of delinquent and nondelinquent boys. It
was found, among other things, that there was no more
delinquency, or school truancy, when the mothers worked
regularly than when they were housewives. But, spectacular headlines warned, significantly more delinquents had
mothers who worked irregularly. This finding brought guilt
and gloom to the educated mothers who had given up fullfledged careers, but managed to keep on in their fields by
working part-time, by free-lancing, or by taking temporary
jobs with periods at home in between. "Here for years I've
been purposely taking temporary jobs and part-time jobs,
trying to arrange my working life in the boys' best interests," one such mother was quoted by the New York
Times, "and now it looks as though I've been doing the
worst possible thing!"9
Actually, this mother, a woman with professional training who lived in a comfortable middle-class neighborhood,
was equating herself with mothers in that study who, it
turned out, not only lived in poor socio-economic circumstances, but had in many cases been juvenile delinquents
themselves. And they often had husbands who were emotionally disturbed.
The researchers who did that study suggested that the
sons of these women had emotional conflicts because the
mother was motivated to her sporadic work "not so much
to supplement family income as to escape household and

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

187

maternal responsibilities." But another specialist, analyzing
the same findings, thought the basic cause both of the
mother's sporadic employment and the son's delinquency
was the emotional instability of both parents. Whatever the
reason, the situation was in no way comparable to that of
most educated women who read themselves into it. In fact,
as Dr. Stolz shows, many studies misinterpreted as "proof"
that women cannot combine careers and motherhood actually indicate that, where other conditions are equal, the
children of mothers who work because they want to are
less likely to be disturbed, have problems in school, or to
"lack a sense of personal wprth" than housewives' children.
The early studies of children of working mothers were
done in an era when few married women worked, at day
nurseries which served working mothers who were without husbands due to death, divorce or desertion. These
studies were done by social workers and economists in
order to press for such reforms as mothers' pensions.
The disturbances and higher death rate in such children
were not found in studies done in this recent decade,
when of the millions of married women working, only 1
out of 8 was not living with her husband.
In one such recent study, based on 2,000 mothers, the
only significant differences were that more housewifemothers stated "the children make me nervous" than
working mothers; and the housewives seemed to have
"more children." A famous study in Chicago which had
seemed to show more mothers of delinquents were working outside the home, turned out to show oIJly that more
delinquents come from broken homes. Another study of
400 seriously disturbed children (of a school popUlation
of 16,000) showed that where no broken home was involved, three times as many of the disturbed children's
mothers were housewives as working mothers.
Other studies showed that children of working mothers were less likely to be either extremely aggressive or
extremely inhibited, less likely to do poorly in school, or
to "lack a sense of personal worth" than children of
housewives, and that mothers who worked were more
likely to be "delighted" at becoming pregnant, and less
likely to suffer conflict over the "role of mother" than
housewives.
There also seemed to be a closer and more positive

188

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

relationship to children among working mothers who
liked their work, than among housewife-mothers or
mothers who did not like their work. And a study during
the thirties of colle!Je-educated mothers, who are more
able to choose work they like, showed no adverse effect
of their employment on their marital and emotional adjustment, or on number or seriousness of children's problems. In general, women who work shared only two attributes; they were more likely to have higher education
and to live in cities. 1o
In our own era, however, as droves of educated women
have become suburban housewives, who among them did
not worry that their child's bed wetting, thumbsucking, overeating, refusal to eat, withdrawal, lack of friends, inability
to be alone, aggressiveness, timidity, slow reading, too much
reading, lack of discipline, rigidity, inhibition, exhibitionism, sexual precociousness, or sexual lack of interest was
a sign of incipient neurosis. If not actual abnormality or
actual delinquency, they must be at least signs of parental
failure, portents of future neurosis. Sometimes they were.
Parenthood, and especially motherhood, under the Freudian spotlight, had to become a full-time job and career if
not a religious cult. One false step could mean disaster.
Without careers, without any commitment other than their
homes, mothers could devote every moment to their children; their full attention could be given to finding signs of
incipient neurosis-and perhaps to producing it.
In every case history, of course, you can always find
significant facts about the mother, especially if you are
looking for facts, or memories, of those supposedly crucial
first five years. In America, after all, the mother is always there; she is supposed to be there. Is the fact that
they are always there, and there only as mothers, somehow linked to the neuroses of their children? Many cultures
pass on their conflicts to children through the mothers, but
in the modern cultures of the civilized world, not many
educate their strongest, ablest women to make a career of
their own children.
Not long ago Dr. Spock confessed, a bit uneasily, that
Russian children, whose mothers usually have some purpose.in their lives besides motherhood-they work in medicine, science, education, industry, government, art-seemed

189
THE MISTAKEN CHOICE
somehow more stable, adjusted, mature, than American
children, whose full-time mothers do nothing but worry
about them. Could it be that Russian women are somehow
better mothers because they have a serious purpose in their
own lives? At least, said the good Dr. Spock, these mothers
are more sure of themselves as mothers. They are not, like
American mothers, dependent on the latest word from the
experts, the newest child-care fad,11 It is clearly a terrible
burden on Dr. Spock to have 13,500,000 mothers so unsure of themselves that they bring up their children literally
according to his book-and call piteously to him for help
when the book does not work.
No headlines marked the growing concern of psychiatrists with the problem of "dependence" in American children and grownup children. The psychiatrist David Levy,
in a very famous study of "maternal overprotection," studied in exhaustive detail twenty mothers who had damaged
their children to a pathological extent by "maternal infantilization, indulgence and overprotection."12 A typical case
was a twelve-year-old boy who had "infantile temper tantrums in his eleventh year when his mother refused to butter his bread for him. He still demanded her help in dressing. . . . He summed up his requirements in life very
neatly by saying that his mother would butter his bread for
him until he married, after which his wife would do
so . . ."
All these mothers-according to physiological indexes
such as menstrual flow, breast milk, and early indications
of a "maternal type of behavior"-were unusually strong
in their feminine or maternal instinctual base, if it can be
described that way. All but two of the twenty, as Dr. Levy
himself described it, were responsible, stable and aggressive: "the active or aggressive feature of the responsible
behavior was regarded as a distinctly maternal type of behavior; it characterized the lives of 18 of the 20 overprotecting mothers since childhood." In none was there any
tinge of unconscious rejection of the child or of motherhood.
What made these twenty strongly maternal women (evidently strength, even aggression, is not masculine when a
psychiatrist considers it part of the maternal instinct) produce such pathologically infantile sons? For one thing, the
"child was utilized as a means of satisfying an abnormal

190

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

craving for love." These mothers freshened up, put lipstick
on when the son was due home from school, as a wife for
a husband or a girl for her date, because they had no other
life besides the child. Most, Levy said, had thwarted career
ambitions. The "maternal overprotection" was actually
caused by these mothers' strength, by their basic feminine
energy-responsible, stable, active and aggressive-producing pathology in the child when the mother was blocked
from "other channels of expression."
Most of these mothers also had dominating mothers and
submissive fathers of their own, and their husbands had
also been obedient sons of dominating mothers; in Freudian
terms, the castrativeness all around was rather extreme.
The sons and mothers were given intensive psychoanalytical therapy for years, which, it was hoped, would break
the pathological cycle. But when, some years after the original study, research workers checked on these women and
the children they had pathologically overprotected, the results were not quite what was expected. In most cases psychotherapy had not been effective. Yet some of the children, miraculously, did not become pathological adults; not
because of therapy, but because by circumstance the mother had acquired an interest or activity in her own life and
had simply stopped living the child's life for him. In a few
other cases, the child survived because, through his own
ability, he had staked out an area of independence of which
his mother was not a part.
Other clues to the real problem of the mother-child relationship in America have been seen by social scientists
without ever penetrating the mystique. A sociologist named
Arnold Green almost by accident discovered another dimension to the relationship between nurturing mother love,
or its lack, and neurosis.
It seems that in the Massachusetts industrial town where
Green grew up an entire generation was raised under psychological conditions which should have been traumatic:
conditions of irrational, vengeful, even brutal parental authority, and a complete lack of "love" between parent and
child. The parents, Polish immigrants, tried to enforce rigid
old-world rules which their American children did not respect. The children's ridicule, anger, contempt made the
bewildered parents resort to a "vengeful, personal, irrational authority which no longer finds support in the future
hopes and ambitions of the children."

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

191

In exasperation and fear of losing all control over their
Americanized youngsters, parents apply the fist and
whip rather indiscriminately. The sound of blows,
screams, howls, vexations, wails of torment and hatred
are so commonplace along the rows of dilapidated millhouses that the passersby pay them scant attention.13
Surely, here were the seeds of future neuroses, as all
good post-Freudian parents in America understand them.
But to Green's amazement, when he went back and
checked as a sociologist on the neuroses which according
to the book must surely be flourishing, he found no known
case of Army rejection because of psychoneurosis in the
local Polish community, and in the overt behavior of an
entire generation in the village "no expression of anxiety,
guilty feelings, rigidity of response, repressed hostility-the
various symptoms described as characteristic of the basic
neurotic character." Green wondered. Why didn't those
children become neurotic, why weren't they destroyed by
that brutal, irrational parental authority?
They had none of that constant and watchful nurturip.g
love that is urged on middle-class mothers by the child psychologizers; their mothers, like their fathers, worked all day
in the factory; they had been left in the care of older sisters or brothers, had run free in fields and woods, had
avoided their parents wherever possible. In these families,
stress was placed upon work, rather than personal sentiment: "respect, not love is. the tie that binds." Demonstrations of affection were not altogether lacking, Green said,
"but they had little in common with the definitions of
parent-child love found in the middle-class women's magazines."
It occurred to the sociologist that perhaps the very absence of this omnipresent nurturing mother love might explain why these children did not suffer the neurotic symptoms so commonly found in the sons of middle-class
parents. The Polish parents' authority, however brutal and
irrational, was "external to the core of the self," as Green
put it. The Polish parents did not have the technique or
opportunity to "absorb the personality of the child." Perhaps, Green suggested, "lack of love" and "irrational authority" do not in themselves cause neurosis, but only within a certain context of "personality absorption"-the physical and emotional blanketing of the child which brings

192

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

about that slavish dependence upon the parents found
among children of the native white American urban collegeeducated middle class.
Is "lack of love" the cause of neurosis, or the middleclass parental nurturing which "absorbs" the child's independent self, and creates in him an excessive need for love?
Psychoanalysts had always concentrated on the seeds of
neuroses; Green wanted to "find out what there is to being
a modern middle-class parent that fertilizes the soil of the
child's neurosis, however the individual seed is planted."
As usual, the arrow pointed unerringly to the mother.
But Green was not concerned with helping the modern
American mother adjust to her role; on the contrary, he
found that she lacked any real "role" as a woman in modern society.
She enters marriage and perhaps bears a child with no
definite role and series of functions, as formerly . . . . '
She feels inferior to man because comparatively she has
been and is more restricted. The extent of the actual
emancipation of women has been commonly exaggerated . . • .
Through a "good" marriage the middle-class girl attains far more status than is possible through a career of
her own. But the period of phantom dalliance with a career, or an embarkation upon one, leave her ill-fitted
for the drudgery of housecleaning, diapers, and the preparation of meals. . . . The mother has little to do, in or
out of the home; she is her single child's sole companion.
Modern "scientific child care" enforces a constant supervision and diffused worrying over the child's health,
eating spinach, and ego development; this is complicated
by the fact that much energy is spent forcing early walking, toilet-training, talking, because in an intensively competitive milieu middle-class parents from the day of birth
are constantly comparing their own child's development
with that of the neighbors' children.
Perhaps, Green speculates, middle-class mothers
• • . have made "love" of supreme importance in their
relation to the child, theirs for him and his for them,
partly because of the love-complex of our time, which is
particularly ramified within the middle class, and partly

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

193

as a compensation for the many sacrifices they have
made for the child. The child's need for love is experienced precisely because he has been conditioned to need
it . . . conditioned to a slavish emotional dependence.
. . . Not the need for parental love, but the constant
threat of its withdrawal after the child has been conditioned to the need, lies at the root of the most characteristic modern neuroses; Mamma won't like you if you
don't eat your spinach, or stop dribbling your milk, or
get down from that davenport. To the extent that a
child's personality has been absorbed, he will be thrown
into a panic by this sort of treatment. . . . In such a
child, a disapproving glance may produce more terrorthan a twenty-minute lashing in little Stanislaus Wojcik.
Green was only concerned with mothers in terms of
their effect on their sons. But it occurred to him that "personality absorption" alone cannot, after all, explain neurosis. Because otherwise, he says, middle-class women of the
previous generation would all have suffered such neuroses
-and nobody recorded such suffering in those women.
Certainly the personality of the middle-class girl of the late
nineteenth century was "absorbed" by her parents, by the
demands of "love" and unquestioning obedience. However,
"the rate of neurosis under those conditions was probably
not too high," the sociologist concludes, because even
though the woman's own personality was "absorbed," it
was consistently absorbed "within a role which changed relatively slightly from childhood into adolescence, courtship,
and finally into marriage"; ·she never could be her own
person.
The modern middle-class boy, on the other hand, is
forced to compete with others, to achieve--which demands
a certain degree of independence, firmness of purpose, aggressiveness, self-assertion. Thus, in the boy, the mothernourished need for everyone to love him, the inability to
erect his own 'Values and purposes is neurotic, but not in the
girl.
It is provocative, this speculation made by a sociologist
in 1946, but it never penetrated far beyond the inner circles of social theory, never permeated the bulwarks of the
feminine mystique, despite increasing national awareness
that something was wrong with American mothers. Even
this sociologist, who managed to get behind the mystique

194

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

and see children in terms other than their need for more
mother love, was concerned only with the problem of the
sons. But was not the real implication that the role of the
middle-class American housewife forces many a mother to
smother, absorb, the personality of both her sons and
daughters? Many saw the tragic waste of American sons
who were made incapable of achievement, individual values, independent action; but they did not see as tragic the
waste of the daughters, or of the mothers to whom it happened generations earlier. If a culture does not expect human maturity from its women, it does not see its lack as a
waste, or as a possible cause of neurosis or conflict. The
insult, the real reflection on our culture's definition of the
role of women, is that as a nation we only noticed that
something was wrong with women when we saw its effects
on their sons.
Is it surprising that we misunderstood what was really
wrong? How could we understand it, in the static terms of
functionalism and adjustment? Educators and sociologists
applauded when the personality of the middle-class girl was
"consistently" absorbed from childhood through adulthood
by her "role as woman." Long live the role, if adjustment
is served. The waste of a human self was not considered
a phenomenon to be studied in women-only the frustration caused by "cultural inconsistencies in role-conditioning," as the great social scientist Ruth Benedict described
the plight of American women. Even women themselves,
who felt the misery, the helplessness of their lack of self,
did not understand the feeling; it became the problem that
has no name. And in their shame and guilt they turned
again to their children to escape the problem. So the circle
completes itself, from mother to sons and daughters, generation after generation.
The unremitting attack on women which has become an
American preoccupation in recent years might also stem
from the same escapist motives that sent men and women
back to the security of the home. Mother love is said to be
sacred in America, but with all the reverence and lip service
she is paid, mom is a pretty safe target, no matter how
correctly or incorrectly her failures are interpreted. No one
has ever been blacklisted or fired for an attack on "the
American woman." Apart from the psychological pressures
from mothers or wives, there have been plenty of nonsex-

THE MISTAKEN CHOICE

195

ual pressures in the America of the last decade-the compromising, never-ceasing competition, the anonymous and
often purposeless work in the big organization-that also
kept a man from feeling like a man. Safer to take it out on
his wife and his mother than to recognize a failure in himself or in the sacred American way of life. The men were
not always kidding when they said their wives were lucky
to be able to stay home all day. It was also soothing to rationalize the rat race by telling themselves that they were in
it "for the wife and kids." And so men re-created their own
childhood in suburbia, and made mothers of their wives.
Men fell for the mystique without a murmur of dissent. It
promised them mothers for the rest of their lives, both as a
reason for their being and as an excuse for their failures. Is
it so strange that boys who grow up with too much mother
love become men who can never get enough?
But why did women sit still for this barrage of blame?
When a culture has erected barrier after barrier against
women as separate selves; when a culture has erected legal,
political, social, economic and educational barriers to women's own acceptance of maturity-even after most of those
barriers are down it is still easier for a woman to seek the
sanctuary of the home. It is easier to live through her husband and children than to make a road of her own in the
world. For she is the daughter of that same mom who made
it so hard for girl as well as boy to grow up. And freedom
is a frightening thing. It is frightening to grow up finally
and be free of passive dependence. Why should a woman
bother to be anything more than a wife and mother if all
the forces of her culture tell her she doesn't have to, will
be better off not to, grow up?
And so the American woman made her mistaken choice.
She ran back home again to live by sex alone, trading in
her individuality for security. Her husband was drawn in
after her, and the door was shut against the outside world.
They began to live the pretty lie of the feminine mystique,
but could either of them really believe it? She was, after
all, an American woman, an irreversible product of a culture that stops just short of giving her a separate identity.
He was, after all, an American man whose respect for individuality and freedom of choice are his nation's pride.
They went to school together; he knows who she is. Does
his meek willingness to wax the floor and wash the dishes'
when he comes home tired on the 6:55 hide from both

196

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

their guilty awareness of the reality behind the pretty lie?
What keeps them believing it, in spite of the warning signs
that have cropped up allover the suburban lot? What keeps
the women home? What force in our culture is strong
enough to write "Occupation: housewife" so large that all
the other possibilities for women have been almost obscured?
Powerful forces in this nation must be served by those
pretty domestic pictures that stare at us everywhere, forbidding a woman to use her own abilities in the world. The
preservation of the feminine mystique in this sense could
have implications that are not sexual at all. When one begins to think about it, America depends rather heavily on
women's passive dependence, their femininity. Femininity,
if one still wants to call it that, makes American women a
target and a victim of the sexual sell.

NI NE
THE SEXUAL SELL
SOME MONTHS AGO, AS I BEGAN TO FIT TOGETHER

the puzzle of women's retreat to home, I had the feeling I
was missing something. I could trace the routes by which
sophisticated thought circled back on itself to perpetuate an
obsolete image of femininity; I could see how that image
meshed with prejudice and misinterpreted frustrations to
hide the emptiness of "Occupation: housewife" from women themselves.
But what powers it all? If, despite the nameless desperation of so many American housewives, despite the opportunities open to all women now, so few have any purpose
in life other than to be a wife and motlier, somebody, something pretty powerful must be at work. The energy behind
the feminist movement was too dynamic merely to have
trickled dry; it must have been turned off, diverted, by
something more powerful than that underestimated power
of women.
There are certain facts of life so obvious and mundane
that one never talks about them. Only the child blurts out:
"Why do people in books never go to the toilet?" Why is it
never said that the really crucial function, the really important role that women serve as housewives is to buy more
things for the house. In all the talk of femininity and woman's role, one forgets that the real business of America is
business. But the perpetuation of housewifery, the growth
of the feminine mystique, makes sense (and dollars) when
one realizes that women are the chief customers of American business. Somehow, somewhere, someone must have
figured out that women will buy more things if they are
kept in the underused, nameless-yearning, energy-to-getrid-of state of being housewives.
I have no idea how it happened. Decision-making in industry is not as simple, as rational, as those who believe the
conspiratorial theories of history would have it. I am sure
the heads of General Foods, and General Electric, and

198

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

General Motors, and Macy's and Gimbel's and the assorted
directors of all the companies that make detergents and
electric mixers, and red stoves with rounded corners, and
synthetic furs, and waxes, and hair coloring, and patterns
for home sewing and home carpentry, and lotions for detergent hands, and bleaches to keep the towels pure white,
never sat down around a mahogany conference table in a
board room on Madison Avenue or Wall Street and voted
on a motion: "Gentlemen, I move, in the interests of all,
that we begin a concerted fifty-billion dollar campaign to
stop' this dangerous movement of American women out of
the home. We've got to keep them housewives, and let's
not forget it."
A thinking vice-president says: "Too many women getting educated. Don't want to stay home. Unhealthy. If they
all get to be scientists and such, they won't have time to
shop. But how can we keep them home? They want careers
now."
"We'll liberate them to have careers at home," the new
executive with horn-rimmed glasses and the Ph.D. in psychology suggests. "We'll make home-making creative."
Of course, it didn't happen quite like that. It was not an
economic conspiracy directed against women. It was a byproduct of our general confusion lately of means with ends;
just something that happened to women when the business
of producing and selling and investing in business for profit
-which is merely the way our economy is organized to
serve man's needs efficiently-began to be confused with
the purpose of our nation, the end of life itself. No more
surprising, the subversion of women's lives in America to
the ends of business, than the subversion of the sciences of
human behavior to the business of deluding women about
their real needs. It would take a clever economist to figure
out what would keep our affluent economy going if the
housewife market began to fall off, just as an economist
would have to figure out what to do if there were no threat
of war.
It is easy to see why it happened. I learned how it happened when I went to see a man who is paid approximately
a million dollars a year for his professional services in manipUlating the emotions of American women to serve the
needs of business. This partiCUlar man got in on the ground
floor of the hidden-persuasion business in 1945, and kept
going. The headquarters of his institute for motivational

THE SEXUAL SELL

199

manipulation is a baronial mansion in upper Westchester.
The walls of a ballroom two-stories high are filled with steel
shelves holding a thousand-odd studies for business and industry, 300,000 individual "depth interviews," mostly with
American housewives. 1
He let me see what I wanted, said I could use anything
that was not confidential to a specific company. Nothing
there for anyone to hide, to feel guilty about-only, in page
after page of those depth studies, a shrewd cheerful awareness of the empty, purposeless, uncreative, even sexually
joyless lives that most American housewives lead. In his
own unabashed terms, this most helpful of hidden persuaders showed me the function served by keeping American women housewives-the reservoir that their lack of
identity, lack of purpose, creates, to be manipulated into
dollars at the point of purchase.
Properly manipulated ("if you are not afraid of that
word," he said), American housewives can be given the
sense of identity, purpose, creativity, the self-realization,
even the sexual joy they lack-by the buying of things. I
suddenly realized the significance of the boast that women
wield seventy-five per cent of the purchasing power in
America. I suddenly saw American women as victims of
that ghastly gift, that power at the point of purchase. The
insights he shared with me so liberally revealed many
things. . . .
The dilemma of business was spelled out in a survey
made in 1945 for the publisher of a leading women's magazine on the attitudes of women toward electrical appliances. The message was considered of interest to all the
companies that, with the war about to end, were going to
have to make consumer sales take the place of war contracts. It was a study of "the psychology of housekeeping";
"a woman's attitude toward housekeeping appliances cannot be separated from her attitude toward homemaking in
general," it warned.
On the basis of a national sample of 4,500 wives (middle-class, high-school or college-educated), American women were divided into three categories: "The True Housewife Type," "The Career Woman," and "The Balanced
Homemaker." While 51 per cent of the women then
fitted "The True Housewife Type" ("From the psychological point of view, housekeeping is this woman's dominating

200

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

interest. She takes the utmost pride and satisfaction in
maintaining a comfortable and well-run home for her family. Consciously or subconsciously, she feels that she is indispensable and that no one else can take over her job. She
has little, if any, desire for a position outside the home, and
if she has one it is through force or circumstances or necessity"), it was apparent that this group was diminishing, and
probably would continue to do so as new fields, interests,
education were now open to women.
The largest market for appliances, however, was this
"True Housewife"-though she had a certain "reluctance"
to accept new devices that had to be recognized and overcome. ("She may even fear that they [appliances] will render unnecessary the old-fashioned way of doing things that
has always suited her.") After all, housework was the justification for her whole existence. ("I don't think: there is any
way to make housework easier for myself," one True
Housewife said, "because I don't believe that a machine can
take the place of hard work.")
The second type-The Career Woman or Would-Be Career Woman-was a minority, but an extremely "unhealthy" one from the sellers' standpoint; advertisers were
warned that it would be to their advantage not to let this
group get any larger. For such women, though not necessarily job-holders, "do not believe that a woman's place is
primarily in the home." ("Many in this group have never
actually worked, but their attitude is: 'I think housekeeping
is a horrible waste of time. If my youngsters were old
enough and I were free to leave the house, I would use my
time to better advantage. If my family's meals and laundry
could be taken care of, I would be delighted to go out and
get a job.''') The point to bear in mind regarding career
women, the study said, is that, while they buy modern appliances, they are not the ideal type of customer. They are
too critical.
The third type-"The Balanced Homemaker"-is "from
the market standpoint, the ideal type." She has some outside interests, or has held a job before turning exclusively
to homemaking; she "readily accepts" the help mechanical
appliances can give-but "does not expect them to do the
impossible" because she needs to use her own executive
ability "in managing a well-run household."
The moral of the study was explicit: "Since the Balanced
Homemaker represents the market with the greatest future

THE SEXUAL SELL

201

potential, it would be to the advantage of the appliance
manufacturer to make more and more women aware of the
desirability of belonging to this group. Educate them
through advertising that it is possible to have outside interests and become alert to wider intellectual influences (without becoming a Career Woman). The art of good homemaking should be the goal of every normal womaIY."
The problem-which, if recognized at that time by one
hidden persuader for the home-appliance industry, was
surely recognized by others with products for the home-was that "a whole new generation of women is being educated to do work outside the home. Furthermore, an increased desire for emancipation is evident." The solution,
quite simply, was to encourage them to be "modern"
housewives. The Career or Would-Be Career Woman who
frankly dislikes cleaning, dusting, ironing, washing clothes,
is less interested in a new wax, a new soap powder. Unlike
"The True Housewife" and the "Balanced Homemaker"
who prefer to have sufficient appliances and do the housework themselves, the Career Woman would "prefer servants-housework takes too much time and energy." She
- buys appliances, however, whether or not she has servants,
but she is "more likely to complain about the service they
give," and to be "harder to sell."
It was too late--impossible--to turn these modem
could-or-would-be career women back into True Housewives, but the study pointed out, in 1945, the potential for
Balanced Housewifery-the home career. Let them "want
to have their cake and eat it too • . . save time, have more
comfort, avoid dirt and disorder, have mechanized supervision, yet not want to give up the feeling of personal
achievement and pride in a well-run household, which
comes from 'doing it yourself.' As one young housewife
said: 'It's nice to be modem-it's like running a factory in
which you have all the latest machinery.'''
But it was not an easy job, either for business or advertisers. New gadgets that were able to do almost all the
housework crowded the market; increased ingenuity was
needed to give American women that "feeling of achievement," and yet keep housework their main purpose in life.
Education, independence, growing individuality, everything
that made them ready for other purposes had constantly to
be countered, cbanneled back to the borne.
The manipulator'S services became increasingly valuable.

202

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

In later surveys, he no longer interviewed professional
women; they were not at home during the day. The women
in his samples were deliberately True or Balanced Housewives, the new suburban housewives. Household and consumer products are, after all, geared to women; seventyfive per cent of all consumer advertising budgets is spent to
appeal to women; that is, to housewives, the women who
are available during the day to be interviewed, the women
with the time for shopping. Naturally, his depth interviews,
projective tests, "living laboratories," were designed to impress his clients, but more often than not they contained
t!te shrewd insights of a skilled social scientist, insights that
could be used with profit.
His clients were told they had to do something about this
growing need of American women to do creative work"the major unfulfilled need of the modern housewife." He
wrote in one report, for example:
Every effort must be made to sell X Mix, as a base
upon which the woman's creative effort is used.
The appeal should emphasize the fact that X Mix aids
the woman in expressing her creativity because it takes
the drudgery away. At the same time, stress should be
laid upon the cooking manipulations, the fun that goes
with them, permitting you to feel that X Mix baking is
real baking.
But the dilemma again: how to make her spend money
on the mix that takes some of the drudgery out of baking
by telling her "she can utilize her energy where it really
counts"-and yet keep her from being "too busy to bake"?
("I don't use the mix because I don't do any baking at all.
It's too much trouble. I live in a sprawled-out apartment
and what with keeping it clean and looking after my child
and my part-time job, I don't have time for baking.") What
to do about their "feeling of disappointment" when the biscuits come out of the oven, and they're really only bread
and there is no feeling of creatjve achievement? ("Why
should I bake my own biscuits when there are so many
good things on the market that just need to be heated up?
It just doesn't make any sense at all to go through all the
trouble of mixing your own and then greasing the tin and
baking them.") What to do when the woman doesn't get
the feeling her mother got, when the cake had to be made

THE SEXUAL SELL

203

from scratch? ("The way my mother made them, you had
to sift the flour yourself and add the eggs and the butter
and you knew you'd really made something you could be
proud of.")
The problem can be handled, the report assured:
By using X Mix the woman can prove herself as a wife
and mother, not only by baking, but by spending more
time with her family .••. Of course, it must also be
made clear that home-baked foods are in every way preferable to bakery-shop foods • • •
Above all, give X Mix "a therapeutic value" by downplaying the easy recipes, emphasizing instead "the stimulating
effort of baking." From an advertising viewpoint, this
means stressing that "with X Mix in the home, you will be
a different woman ••• a happier woman."
Further, the client was told that a phrase in his ad "and
you make that cake the easiest, laziest way there is" evoked
a "negative response" in American housewives-it hit too
close to their "underlying guilt." ("Since they never feel
that they are really exerting sufficient effort, it is certainly
wrong to tell them that baking with X Mix is the lazy
way.") Supposing, he suggested, that this devoted wife and
mother behind the kitchen stove, anxiously preparing a cake
or pie for her husband or children "is simply indulging her
own hunger for sweets." The very fact that baking is work
for the housewife helps her dispel any doubts that she might
have about her real motivations.
But there are even ways to manipulate the housewives'
guilt, the report said:
It might be possible to suggest through advertising that
not to take advantage of all 12 uses of X Mix is to limit
your efforts to give pleasure to your family. A transfer
of guilt might be achieved. Rather than feeling guilty
about using X Mix for dessert food, the woman would
be made to feel guilty if she doesn't take advantage of
this opportunity to give her family 12 different and delicious treats. "Don't waste your skill; don't limit yourself."

By the mid-fifties, the surveys reported with pleasure that
the Career Woman ("the woman who clamored for equal-

204

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ity-almost for identity in every sphere of life, the woman
who reacted to 'domestic slavery' with indignation and vehemence") was gone, replaced by the "less worldly, less
sophisticated" woman whose activity in PTA gives her
"broad contacts with the world outside her home," but who
"finds in housework a medium of expression for her femininity and individuality." She's not like the old-fashioned
self-sacrificing housewife; she considers herself the equal of
man. But she still feels "lazy, neglectful, haunted by guilt
feelings" because she doesn't have enough work to do. The
advertiser must manipulate her need for a "feeling of creativeness" into the buying of his product.
After an initial resistance, she now tends to accept instant coffee, frozen foods, precooked foods, and laborsaving items as part of her routine. But she needs a justification and she finds it in the thought that "by using
frozen foods I'm freeing myself to accomplish other important tasks as a modern mother and wife."
Creativeness is the modern woman's dialectical answer
to the problem of her changed position in the household.
Thesis: I'm a housewife. Antithesis: I hate drudgery.
Synthesis: I'm creative I
This means essentially that even though the housewife
may buy canned food, for instance, and thus save time
and effort, she doesn't let it go at that. She has a great
need for "doctoring up" the can and thus prove her personal participation and her concern with giving satisfaction to her family.
The feeling of creativeness also serves another purpose: it is an outlet for the liberated talents, the better
taste, the freer imagination, the greater initiative of the
modern woman. It permits her to use at home all the faculties that she would display in an outside career.
The yearning for creative opportunities and moments
is a major aspect of buying motivations.
The only trouble, the surveys warned, is that she "tries to
use her own mind and her own judgment. She is fast getting
away from jUdging by collective or majority standards. She
is developing independent standards." ("Never mind the
neighbors. I don't want to 'live up' to them or compare myself to them at every turn.") She can't always be.reached

THE SEXUAL SELL

205

now with "keep up with the Ioneses"-the advertiser must
appeal to her ow n need to live.
Appeal to this thirst. . • . Tell her that you are adding more zest, more enjoyment to her life, that it is within her reach now to taste new experiences and that she is
entitled to taste these experiences. Even more positively,
you should convey that you are giving her "lessons in living."
"House cleaning should be fun," the manufacturer o( a
certain cleaning device was advised. Even though his product was, perhaps, less efficient than the vacuum cleaner, it
let the housewife use more of her own energy in the work.
Further, it let the housewife have the illusion that she has
become "a professional, an expert in determining which
cleaning tools to use for specific jobs."
This professionalization is a psychological defense of
the housewife against being a general "cleaner-upper"
and menial servant for her family in a day and age of
general work emancipation.
The role of expert serves a two-fold emotional function: (1) it helps the housewife achieve status, and (2)
she moves beyond the orbit of her home, into the world
of modern science in her search for new and better ways
of doing things.
As a result, there has never been a more favorable
psychological climate-for household appliances and products. The ,modern housewife . . . is actual1y aggressive
in her efforts to find those household products which, in
her expert opinion, really meet her need. This trend accounts for the popularity of different waxes and polishes
for different materials in the home, for the growing use
of floor polishers, and for the variety of mops and cleaning implements for floors and walls.
The difficulty is to give her the "sense of achievement"
of "ego enhancement" she has been persuaded to seek in
the housewife "profession," when, in actuality, "her timeconsuming task, housekeeping, is not only endless, it is a
task for which society hires the lowliest, least-trained, most
trod-upon individuals and groups . . . . Anyone with a

206

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

strong enough back (and a small enough brain) can do
these menial chores." But even this difficulty can be manipulated to sell her more things:
One of the ways that the housewife raises her own
prestige as a cleaner of her home is through the use of
specialized products for specialized tasks. . . .
When she uses one product for washing clothes, a second for dishes, a third for walls, a fourth for floors, a
fifth for venetian blinds, etc., rather than an all-purpose
cleaner, she feels less like an unskilled laborer, more like
an engineer, an expert.
A second way of raising her own stature is to "do
things my way"-to establish an expert's role for herself
by creating her own "tricks of the trade." For example,
she may "always put a bit of bleach in all my washingeven colored, to make them really clean!"
Help her to "justify her menial task by building up her
role as the protector of her family-the killer of millions
of microbes and germs," this report advised. "Emphasize
her kingpin role in the family . . . help her be an expert
rather than a menial worker . . . make housework a matter of knowledge and skill, rather than a matter of brawn
and dull, unremitting effort." An effective way of doing this
is to bring out a new product. For, it seems, there's a growing wave of housewives "who look forward to new products
which not only decrease their daily work load, but actually
engage their emotional and intellectual interest in the world
of scientific development outside the home."
One gasps in admiration at the ingenuity of it all-the
housewife can participate in science itself just by buying
something new--or something old that has been given a
brand new personality.
Besides increasing her professional status, a new cleaning appliance or product increases a woman's feeling Of
economic security and luxury, just as a new automobile
does for a man. This was reported by 28 per cent of the
respondents, who agreed with this particular sentiment:
"I like to tryout new things. I've just started to use a
new liquid detergent-and somehow it makes me feel
like a queen."

THE SEXUAL SEll

207

The question of letting the woman use her mind and
even participate in science through housework is, however,
not without its drawbacks. Science should not relieve housewives of too much drudgery; it must concentrate instead on
creating the illusion of that sense of achievement that
housewives seem to need.
To prove this point, 250 housewives were given a depth
test: they were asked to choose among four imaginary
methods of cleaning. The first was a completely automatic
dust- and dirt-removal system which operated continuously
like a home-heating system. The second, the housewife had
to press a button to start. The third was portable; she had
to carry it around and point it at an area to remove the
dirt. The fourth was a brand new, modern object with
which she could sweep the dirt away herself. The housewives spoke up in favor of this last appliance. If it "appears
new, modern" she would rather have the one that lets her
work herself, this report said. "One compelling reason is
her desire to be a participant, not just a button-pusher." As
one housewife remarked, "As for some magical push-button cleaning system, well, what would happen to my exercise, my feeling of accomplishment, and what would I do
with my mornings?"
This fascinating study incidentally revealed that a certain
electronic cleaning appliance--Iong considered one of our
great laborsavers-actually made "housekeeping more difficult than it need be." From the response of eighty per
cent of those housewives, it seemed that once a woman got
this appliance going, she "felt compelled to do cleaning that
wasn't really necessary." The electronic appliance actually
dictated the extent and type of cleaning to be done.
Should the housewife then be encouraged to go back to
that simple cheap sweeper that let her clean only as much
as she felt necessary? No, said the report, of course not.
Simply give that old-fashioned sweeper the "status" of the
electronic appliance as a "labor-saving necessity" for the
modern housewife "and then indicate that the modern
homemaker would, naturally, own both."
No one, not even the depth researchers, denied that
housework was endless, and its boring repetition just did
not give that much satisfaction, did not require that much
vaunted expert knowledge. But the endlessness of it all was
an advantage from the seller's point of view. The problem

208

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

was to keep at bay the underlying realization which was
lurking dangerously in "thousands of depth interviews
which we have conducted for dozens of different kinds of
house-cleaning products"-the reali!zation that, as one
housewife said, "It stinks! I have to do it, so I do it. It's a
necessary evil, that's all." What to do? For one thing, put
out more and more products, make the directions more
complicated, make it really necessary for the housewife to
"be an expert." (Washing clothes, the report advised, must
become more than a matter of throwing clothes into a machine and pouring in soap. Garments must be carefully
sorted, one load given treatment A, a second load treatment B, some washed by hand. The housewife can then
"take great pride in knowing just which of the arsenal of
products to use on each occasion.")
Capitalize, the report continued, on housewives' "guilt
over the hidden dirt" so she will rip her house to shreds in
a "deep cleaning" operation, which will give her a "sense of
completeness" for a few weeks. ("The times of thorough
cleaning are the points at which she is most willing to try
new products and 'deep clean' advertising holds out the
promise of completion.")
The seller must also stress the joys of completing each
separate task, remembering that "nearly all housekeepers,
even those who thoroughly detest their job, paradoxically
find escape from their endless fate by accepting it-by
'throwing myself into it,' as she says."
Losing herself in her work-surrounded by all the implements, creams, powders, soaps, she forgets for a time
how soon she will have to redo the task. In other words,
a housewife permits herself to forget for a moment how
rapidly the sink will again fill with dishes, how quickly
the floor will again be dirty, and she seizes the moment
of completion of a task as a moment of pleasure as pure
as if she had just finished a masterpiece of art which
would stand as a monument to her credit forever.
This is the kind of creative experience the seller of things
can give the housewife. In one housewife's own words:
I don't like housework at all. I'm a lousy houseworker.
But once in a while I get pepped up and I'll really go to
town . . • When I have some new kind of cleaning ma-

THE SEXUAL SELL

209

terial-like when Glass Wax first came out or those silicone furniture polishes-I got a real kick out pf it, and I
went through the house shining everything. I like to see
the things shine. I feel so good when I see the bathroom
just glistening.
And so the manipulator advised:
Identify your product with the physical and spiritual
rewards she derives from the almost religious feeling of
basic security provided by her home. Talk about her
"light, happy, peaceful feelings"; her "deep sense of
achievement." . . . But remember she doesn't really
want praise for the sake of praise . . . also remember
that her mood is not simply "gay." She is tired and a bit
solemn. Superficially cheerful adjectives or colors will
not reflect her feelings. She will react much more favorably to simple, warm and sincere messages.
In the fifties came the revolutionary discovery of the
teenage market. Teenagers and young marrieds began to
figure prominently in the surveys. It was discovered that
young wives, who had only been to high school and had
never worked, were more "insecure/' less independent, easier to sell. These young people could be told that, by buying the right things, they could achieve middle-class status,
without work or study. The keep-up-with-the-Joneses sell
would work again; the individuality and independence
which American women had been getting from education
and work outside the home was not such a problem with
the teenage brides. In fact, the surveys said, if the pattern
of "happiness through things" could be established when
these women were young enough, they could be safely encouraged to go out and get a part-time job to help their
husbands pay for all the things they buy. The main point
now was to convince the teenager$ that "happiness through
things" is no longer the prerogative of the rich or the talented; it can be enjoyed by all, if they learn "the right way,"
the way the others do it, if they learn the embarrassment of
being different.
In the words of one of these reports:
49 per cent of the new brides were teenagers, and
more girls marry at the age of 18 than at any other age.

210

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

This early family formation yields a larger number of
young people who are on the threshold of their own responsibilities and decision-making in purchases . . .
But the most important fact is of a psychological nature: Marriage today is not only the culmination of a
romantic attachment; more consciously and more clearheadedly than in the past, it is also a decision to create a
partnership in establishing a comfortable home, equipped
with a great number of desirable products.
In talking to scores of young couples and brides-to-be,
we found that, as a rule, their conversations and dreams
centered to a very large degree around their future
homes and their furnishings, around shopping "to get an
idea," around discussing the advantages and disadvantages of various products. . . .
The modern bride is deeply convinced of the unique
value of married love, of the possibilities of finding real
happiness in marriage and of fulfilling her personal destiny in it and through it.
But the engagement period today is a romantic,
dreamy and heady period only to a limited extent. It is
probably safe to say that the period of engagement tends
to be a rehearsal of the material duties and responsibilities of marriage. While waiting for the nuptials, couples
work hard, put aside money for definite purchases, or
even begin buying on an installment plan.
What is the deeper meaning of this new combination
of an almost religious belief in the importance and beauty
of married life on the one hand, and the product-centered outlook, on the other? . . .
The modern bride seeks as a conscious goal that which
in many cases her grandmother saw as a blind fate and
her mother as slavery: to belong to a man, to have a
home and children of her own, to choose among all possible careers the career of wife-mother-homemaker.
The fact that the young bride now seeks in her marriage
complete "fulfillment," that she now expects to "prove her
own worth" and find all the "fundamental meanings" of life
in her home, and to participate through her home in "the
interesting ideas of the modern era, the future," has enormous "practical applications," advertisers were told. For all
these meanings she seeks in her marriage, even her fear
that she will be "left behind," can be channeled into the

THE SEXUAL SELL

211

purchase of products. For example, a manufacturer of
sterling silver, a product that is very difficult to sell, was
told:
Reassure her that only with sterling can she be fully
secure in her new role . . . it symbolizes her success as
a modem woman. Above all, dramatize the fun and
pride that derive from the job of cleaning silver. Stimulate the pride of achievement. "How much pride you get
from the brief task that's so much fun . • ."
Concentrate on the very young teenage girls, this report
further advised. The young ones will want what "the others" want, even if their mothers don't. ("As one of our
teenagers said: 'All the gang has started their own sets of
sterling. We're real keen about it-compare patterns and
go through the ads together. My own family never had any
sterling and they think I'm showing off when I spend my
money on it-they think plated's just as good. But the kids
think they're way off base.''') Get them in schools,
churches, sororities, social clubs; get them through homeeconomics teachers, group leaders, teenage TV programs
and teenage advertising. "This is the big market of the future and word-of-mouth advertising, along with group pressure, is not only the most potent influence but in the absence of tradition, a most necessary one."
As for the more independent older wife, that unfortunate tendency to use materials that require little care-stainless steel, plastic dishes, paper napkins-can be met by
making her feel guilty about the effects on the children.
("As one young wife told us: 'I'm out of the house all day
long, so I can't prepare and serve meals the way I want to.
I don't like it that way-my husband and the children deserve a better break. Sometimes I think it'd be better if we
tried to get along on one salary and have a real home life
but there are always so many things we need.''') Such
guilt, the report maintained, can be used to make her see
the product, silver, as a means of holding the family together; it gives "added psychological value." What's more,
the product can even fill the housewife's need for identity:
"Suggest that it becomes truly a part of you, reflecting you.
Do not be afraid to suggest mystically that sterling will
adapt itself to any house and any person."
The fur industry is in trouble, another survey reported,

212

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

because young high school and college girls equate fur coats
with "uselessness" and "a kept woman." Again the advice
was to get to the very young before these unfortunate connotations have formed. ("By introducing youngsters to
positive fur experiences, the probabilities of easing their
way into garment purchasing in their teens is enhanced.")
Point out that "the wearing of a fur garment actually establishes femininity and sexuality for a woman." ("It's the
kind of thing a girl looks forward to. It means something.
It's feminine." "I'm bringing my daughter up right. She always wants to put on 'mommy's coat.' She'll want them.
She's a real girl.") But keep in mind that "mink has contributed a negative feminine symbolism to the whole fur
market." Unfortunately, two out of three women felt minkwearers were "predatory... exploitative . . . dependent . . . socially non-productive . . ."
Femininity today cannot be so explicitly predatory, exploitative, the report said; nor can it have the old highfashion "connotations of stand-out-from-the-crowd, self
centeredness." And so fur's "ego-orientation" must be reduced and replaced with the new femininity of the housewife, for whom ego-orientation must be translated into togetherness, family-orientation.
Begin to create the feeling that fur is a necessity-a
delightful necessity . . . thus providing the consumer
with moral permission to purchase something she now
feels is ego-oriented. . . . Give fur femininity a broader
character, developing some of the following status and
prestige symbols . . . an emotionally happy woman
. . . wife and mother who wins the affection and respect
of her husband and her children because of the kind of
person she is, and the kind of role she performs. . . .
Place furs in a family setting; show the pleasure and
admiration of a fur garment derived by family members,
husband and children; their pride in their mother's appearance, in her ownership of a fur garment. Develop
fur garments as "family" gifts-enable the whole family
to enjoy that garment at Christmas, etc., thus reducing its
ego-orientation for the owner and eliminating her guilt
over her alleged self-indulgence.
Thus, the only way that the young housewife was supposed to express herself, and not feel guilty about it, was in

THE SEXUAL SELL

213

buying products for the home-and-family. Any creative
urges she may have should also be home-and-family oriented, as still another survey reported to the home sewing
industry.
Such activities as sewing achieve a new meaning and
a new status. Sewing is no longer associated with absolute need. . . • Moreover, with the moral elevation of
home-oriented activities, sewing, along with cooking,
gardening, and home decorating-is recognized as a
means of expressing creativity and individuality and also
as a means of achieving the "quality" which a new taste
level dictates.
The women who sew, this survey discovered, are the active, energetic, intelligent modern housewives, the new
home-oriented modern American women, who have a great
unfulfilled need to create, and achieve, and realize their
own individuality-which must be filled by some home activity. The big problem for the home-sewing industry was
that the "image" of sewing was too "dull"; somehow it
didn't achieve the feelil'lg of creating something important.
In selling their products, the industry must emphasize the
"lasting creativeness" of sewing.
But even sewing can't be too creative, too individual, according to the advice offered to one pattern manufacturer.
His patterns required some intelligence to follow, left quite
a lot of room for individual expression, and the manufacturer was in trouble for that very reason; his patterns implied that a woman "would know what she likes and would
probably have definite ideas." He was advised to widen this
"far too limited fashion personality" and get one with
"fashion conformity"-appeal to the "fashion-insecure
woman," "the conformist element in fashion," who feels "it
is not smart to be dressed too differently." For, of course,
the manufacturer's problem was not to satisfy woman's
need for individuality, for expression or creativity, but to
sell more patterns-which is better done by building conformity.
Time and time again, the surveys shrewdly analyzed the
needs, and even the secret frustrations of the American
housewife; and each time if these needs were properly manipulated, she could be induced to buy more "things." In

214

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

' 1957, a survey told the department stores that their role in
this new world was not only to "sell" the housewife but to
satisfy her need for "education"-to satisfy the yearning
she has, alone in her house, to feel herself a part of the
changing world. The store will sell her more, the report
said, if it will understand that the real need she is trying to
fill by shopping is not anything she can buy there.
Most women have not only a material need, but a
psychological compulsion to visit department stores.
They live in comparative isolation. Their vista and experiences are limited. They know that there is a vaster
life beyond their horizon and they fear that life will pass
them by.
Department stores break down that isolation. The
woman entering a department store suddenly has the
feeling she knows what is going on in the world. Department stores, more than magazines, TV, or any other
medium of mass communication, are most women's main
source of information about the various aspects of
life ..•
There are many needs that the department store must
fill, this report continued. For one, the housewife's "need to
learn and to advance in life."
We symbolize our social position by the objects with
which we surround ourselves. A woman whose husband
was making $6,000 a few years ago and is making $10,
000 now needs to learn a whole new set of symbols. Department stores are her best teachers of this subject.
For another, there is the need for achievement, which
for the new modem housewife, is primarily filled by a "bargain."
We have found that in our economy of abundance,
preoccupation with prices is not so much a financial as a
.psychological need for the majority of women. . . . Increasingly a "bargain" means not that "I can now buy
something which I could not afford at a higher price";
it mainly means "I'm doing a good job as a housewife;
I'm contributing to the welfare of the family just as my

THE

SEXUAL SELL

215

husband does when he works and brings home the paycheck."
The price itself hardly matters, the report said:
Since buying is only the climax of a complicated relationship, based to a large extent on the woman's yearning to know how to be a more attractive woman, a better
housewife, a superior mother, etc., use this motivation
in all your promotion and advertising. Take every opportunity to explain how your store will help her fulfill
her most cherished roles in life . . .
If the stores are women's school of life, ads are the
textbooks. They have an inexhaustible avidity for these
ads which give them the illusion that they are in contact
with what is going on in the world of inanimate objects,
objects through which they express so much of so many
of their drives • • •
Again, in 1957, a survey very correctly reported that
despite the "many positive aspects" of the "new home-centered era," unfortunately too many needs were now centered on the home-that home was not able to fill. A cause
for alarm? No indeed; even these needs are grist for manipulation.
The family is not always the psychological pot of gold
at the end of the rainbow of promise of modern life as
it has sometimes been represented. In fact, psychological demands are being made upon the family today which
it cannot fulfill. . . .
Fortunately for the producers and advertisers of
America (and also for the family and the psychological
well-being of our citizens) much of this gap may be
filled, and is being filled, by the acquisition of consumer
goods.
Hundreds of products fulfill a whole set of psychological functions that producers and advertisers should know
of and use in the development of more effective sales approaches. Just as producing once served as an outlet for
social tension, now consumption serves the same purpose.

216

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

The buying of things drains away those needs which cannot really be satisfied by home and family-the housewives'
need for "something beyond themselves with which to identify," "a sense of movement with others toward aims that
give meaning and purpose to life," "an unquestioned social
aim to which each individual can devote his efforts."
Deeply set in human nature is the need to have a
meaningful place in a group that strives for meaningful
social goals. Whenever this is lacking, the individual becomes restless. Which explains why, as we talk to people
across the nation, over and over again, we hear questions like these: "What does it all mean?" "Where am I
going?" "Why doti't things seem more worth while and
when we all work so hard and have so darn many things
to play with?"
The question is: Can your product fill this gap?
''The frustrated need for privacy in the family life," in
this era of "togetherness" was another secret wish uncovered in a depth survey. This need, however, might be used
to sell a second car. • • •
In addition to the car the whole family enjoys together, the car for the husband and wife separately-"Alone
in the car, one may get the breathing spell one needs so
badly and may come to consider the car as one's castle,
or the instrument of one's reconquered privacy." Or "individual" "personal" toothpaste, soap, shampoo.

Another sutvey reported that there was a puzzling "desexualization of married life" despite the great emphasis on
marriage and family and sex. The problem: what can supply what the report diagnosed as a "missing sexual spark?"
The solution: the report advised sellers to "put the libido
back into advertising." Despite the feeling that our manufacturers are trying to sell everything through sex, sex as
found on TV commercials and ads in national magazines is
too tame, the report said, too narrow. "Consumerism," is
desexing the American because it "has failed to reflect the
powerful life forces in every individual which range far beyond the relationship between the sexes." The sellers, it
seemed, have sexed the sex out of sex.

THE SEXUAL SELL

217

Most modern advertising reflects and grossly exaggerates our present national tendency to downgrade, simplify and water down the passionate turbulent and electrifying aspects of the life urges of mankind. . . . No
one sugg@Sts that advertising can or should become obscene or salacious. The trouble lies with the fact that
through its timidity and lack of imagination, it faces the
danger of becoming libido-poor and consequently unreal,
inhuman and tedious.
How to put the libido back, restore the lost spontaneity,
drive, love of life, the individuality, that sex in America
seems to lack? In an absent-minded moment, the report
concludes that "love of life, as of the other sex, should remain unsoiled by exterior motives . . . let the wife be
more than a housewife . . . a woman . . ."
One day, having immersed myself in the varied insights
these reports have been giving American advertisers for the
last fifteen years, I was invited to have lunch with the man
who runs this motivational research operation. He had been
so helpful in showing me the commercial forces behind the
feminine mystique, perhapS I could be helpful to him. Naively I asked why, since he found it so difficult to give
women a true feeling of creativeness and achievement in
housework, and tried to assuage their guilt and disillusion
and frustrations by getting them to buy more "things"why didn't he encourage them to buy things for all they
were worth, so they would have time to get out of the
home and pursue truly creative goals in the outside world.
"But we have helped her rediscover the home as the expression of her creativeness," he said. "We help her think
of the modern home as the artist's studio, the scientist's
laboratory. Besides," he shrugged, "most of the manufacturers we deal with are producing things which have to do
with homemaking."
"In a free enterprise economy," he went on, "we have to
develop the need for new products. And to do that we have
to liberate women to desire these new products. We help
them rediscover that homemaking is more creative than to
compete with men. Thi~ can be manipulated. We sell them
what they ought to want, speed up the unconscious, move
it along. The big problem is to liberate the woman not to

218

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

be afraid of what is going to happen to her, if she doesn't
have to spend so much time cooking, cleaning."
"That's what I mean," I said. "Why doesn't the pie-mix
ad tell the woman she could use the time saved to be an
astronomer?"
"It wouldn't be too difficult," he replied. "A few images
-the astronomer gets her man, the astronomer as the heroine, make it glamorous for a woman to be an astronomer
. . . but no," he shrugged again. "The client would be too
frightened. He wants to sell pie mix. The woman has to
want to stay in the kitchen. The manufacturer wants to
intrigue her back into the kitchen-and we show him how
to do it the right way. If he tells her that all she can be is
a wife and mother, she will spit in his face. But we show
him how to tell her that it's creative to be in the kitchen.
We liberate her need to be creative in the kitchen. If we
tell her to be an astronomer, she might go too far from the
kitchen. Besides," he added, "if you wanted to have a campaign to liberate women to be astronomers, you'd have to
find somebody like the National Education Association to
pay for it."
The motivational researchers must be given credit for
their insights into the reality of the housewife's life and
needs-a reality that often escaped their colleagues in academic sociology and therapeutic psycholo~, who saw
women through the Freudian-functional veil. To their own
profit, and that of their clients, the manipulators discovered
that millions of supposedly happy American housewives
have complex needs which home-and-family, love-and-children, cannot fill. But by a morality that goes beyond the
dollar, the manipulators are guilty of using their insights to
sell women things which, no matter how ingenious, will
never satisfy those increasingly desperate needs. They are
guilty of persuading housewives to stay at home, mesmerized in front of a television set, their nonsexual human
needs unnamed, unsatisfied, drained by the sexual sell into
the buying of things.
The manipulators and their clients in American business
can hardly be accused of creating the feminine mystique.
But they are the most powerful of its perpetuators; it is
their millions which blanket the land with persuasive images, flattering the American housewife, diverting her guilt
and disguising her growing sense of emptiness. They have

THE SEXUAL SELL

219

done this so successfully, employing the techniques and concepts of modern social science, and transposing them into
those deceptively simple, clever, outrageous ads and com- .
mercials, that an observer of the American scene today
accepts as fact that the great majority of American women
have no ambition other than to be housewives. If they are
not solely responsible for sending women home, they are
surely responsible for keeping them there. Their unremitting harangue is hard to escape in this day of mass communications; they have seared the feminine mystique deep
into every woman's mind, and into the minds of her husband, her children, her neighbors. They have made it part
of the fabric of her everyday life, taunting her because she
is not a better housewife, does not love her family enough,
is growing old.
Can a woman ever feel right cooking on a dirty range?
Until today, no range could ever be kept really clean.
Now new RCA Whirlpool ranges have oven doors that
lift off, broiler drawers that can be cleaned at the sink,
drip pans that slide out easily. . . . The first range that
any woman can keep completely clean easily . . . and
make everything cooked taste better.
Love is said in many ways. It's giving and accepting.
It's protecting and selecting . . . knowing what's safest
for those you love. Their bathroom tissue is Scott tissue
always . . . . Now in four colors and white.
How skillfully they divert her need for achievement into
sexual phantasies which. promise her eternal youth, dulling
her sense of passing time. They even tell her that she can
make time stand still:
Does she . . . or doesn't she? She's as full of fun as
her kids-and just as fresh looking! Her naturalness, the
way her hair sparkles and catches the light-as though
she's found the secret of making time stand still. And in
a way she has . . .
With increasing skill, the ads glorify her "role" as an
American housewife-knowing that her very lack of identity in that role will make her fall for whatever they are
selling.

220

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Who is she? She gets as excited as her six-year-old
about the opening of school. She reckons her days in
trains met, lunches packed, fingers bandaged, and 1,001
details. She could be you, needing a special kind of
clothes for your busy, rewarding life.
Are you this woman? Giving your kids the fun and
advantages you want for them? Taking them places and
helping them do things? Taking the part that's expected
of you in church and community affairs • . . developing your talents so you'll be more interesting? You can
be the woman you yearn to be with a Plymouth all your
own. . . . Go where you want, when you want in a
beautiful Plymouth that's yours and nobody else's . . .
But a new stove or a softer toilet paper do not make a
woman a better wife or mother, even if she thinks that's
what she needs to be. Dyeing her hair cannot stop time;
buying a Plymouth will not give her a new identity; smoking a Marlboro will not get her an invitation to bed, even
if that's what she thinks she wants. But those unfulfilled
promises can keep her endlessly hungry for things, keep her
from ever knowing what she really needs or wants.
A full-page ad in the New York Times, June 10, 1962,
was "Dedicated to the woman who spends a lifetime living
up to her potential!" Under the picture of a beautiful woman, adorned by evening dress and jewels and two handsome
children, it said: "The only totally integrated program of
nutrient make-up and skin care-designed to lift a woman's good looks to their absolute peak. The woman who
uses 'Ultima' feels a deep sense of fulfillment. A new kind
of pride. For this luxurious Cosmetic Collection is the ultimate . .. beyond it there is nothing."
It all seems so ludicrous when you understand what they
are up to. Perhaps the housewife has no one but herself to
blame if she lets the manipulators flatter or threaten her
into buying things that neither fill her family's needs nor
her own. But if the ads and commercials are a clear case
of caveat emptor, the same sexual sell disguised in the editorial content of a magazine or a television program is both
less ridiculous and more insidious. Here the housewife is
often an unaware victim. I have written for some of the
magazines in which the sexual sell is inextricably linked

THE SEXUAL SELL

221

with the editorial content. Consciously or unconsciously,
the editors know what the advertiser wants.
The heart of X magazine is service-complete service
to the whole woman who is the American homemaker;
service in all the areas of greatest interest to advertisers,
who are also business men. It delivers to the advertiser a
strong concentration of serious, conscientious, dedicated
homemakers. Women more interested in the home and
products for the home. Women more willing and able to
pay •••
A memo need never be written, a sentence need never be
spoken at an editorial conference; the men and women who
make the editorial decisions often compromise their own
very high standards in the interests of the advertising dollar. Often, as a former editor of McCall's recently revealed,2 the advertiser's influence is less than subtle. The
kind of home pictured in the "service" pages is dictated in
no uncertain terms by the boys over in advertising.
And yet, a company has to make a profit on its products;
a magazine, a network needs advertising to survive. But
even if profit is the only motive, and the only standard of
success, I wonder if the media are not making a mistake
when they give the client what they think he wants. I wonder if the challenge and the opportunities for the American
economy and for business itself might not in the long run
lie in letting women grow up, instead of blanketing them
with the youth-senim that keeps them mindless and thinghungry.
The real crime, no matter how profitable for the American economy, is the callous and growing acceptance of the
manipulator's advice "to get them young"-the television
commercials that children sing or recite even before they
learn to read, the big beautiful ads almost as easy as "Look,
Sally, Look," the magazines deliberately designed to turn
teenage girls into housewife buyers of things before they
grow up to be women:
She reads X Magazine from beginning to end . • •
She learns how to market, to cook and to sew and everything else a young woman should know. She plans her
wardrobe 'round X Magazine's clothes, heeds X Maga-

222

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

zine's counsel on beauty and beaus . . . consults X
Magazine for the latest teen fads . . . and oh, how she
buys from those X Magazine ads! Buying habits start in
X Magazine. It's easier to START a habit than to STOP
one! (Learn how X Magazine's unique publication, X
Magazine-at-school, carries your advertising into high
school home economics classrooms.)
Like a primitive culture which sacrificed little girls to its
tribal gods, we sacrifice our girls to the feminine mystique,
grooming them ever more efficiently through the sexual
sell to become consumers of the things to whose profitable
sale our nation is dedicated. Two ads recently appeared in
a national news magazine, geared not to teenage girls but
to executives wbo produce and sell things. One of them
showed the picture of a boy:
I am so going to the moon . . . and you can't go,
'cause you're a girl! Children are growing faster today,
their interests can cover such a wide range--from roller
skates to rockets. X company too has grown, with a
broad spectrum of electronic products for worldwide
governmental, industrial and space application.
The other showed the face of a girl:
Should a gifted child grow up to be a housewife? Educational experts estimate that the gift of high intelligence
is bestowed upon only one out of every 50 children in
our nation. When that gifted child is a girl, one question
is inevitably asked: "Will this rare gift be wasted if she
becomes a housewife?" Let these gifted girls answer that
question themselves. Over 90 per cent of them marry,
and the majority find the job of being a housewife challenging and rewarding enough to make full use of all
their intelligence, ' time and energy. . . . In her daily
roles of nurse, educator, economist and just plain housewife, she is constantly seeking ways to improve her family's life. . . . Millions of women-shopping for half the
families in America-do so by saving X Stamps.
If that gifted girl-child grows up to be a bouswife, can
even the manipulator make supermarket stamps use all of
ber bum an intelligence, ber buman energy, in tbe century

THE SEXUAL SELL

223

she may live while that boy goes to the moon?
Never underestimate the power of a woman, says another ad. But that power was and is underestimated in America. Or rather, it is only estimated in terms that can be
manipulated at the point of purchase. Woman's human intelligence and energy do not really figure in. And yet, they
exist, to be used for some higher purpose than housework
and thing-buying-or wasted. Perhaps it is only a sick society, unwilling to face its own problems and unable to
conceive of goals and purposes equal to the ability and
knowledge of its members, that chooses to ignore the
strength of women. Perhaps it is only a sick or immature
society that chooses to make women "housewives," not people. Perhaps it is only sick or immature men and women,
unwilling to face the great challenges of society, who can
retreat for long, without unbearable distress, into that
thing-ridden house and make it the end of life itself.

TEN
HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO
FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE
WITH A VISION OF THE HAPPY MODERN HOUSEWIFE

as she is described by the magazines and television, by the
functional sociologists, the sex-directed educators, and the
manipulators dancing before my eyes, I went in search of
one of those mystical creatures. Like Diogenes with his
lamp, I went as a reporter from suburb to suburb, searching for a woman of ability and education who was fulfilled
as a housewife. I went first to the suburban mental health
centers and guidance clinics, to reputable local analysts, to
knowledgeable local residents, and, stating my purpose,
asked them to steer me not to the neurotic, frustrated
housewives, but to the able, intelligent, educated women
who were adjusted full-time housewives and mothers.
"I know many such housewives who have found fulfillment as women," one psychoanalyst said. I asked him to
name four, and went to see them.
One, after five years of therapy, was no longer a driven
woman, but neither was she a full-time housewife; she had
become a computer programmer. The second was a gloriously exuberant woman, with a fine successful husband and
three able, exuberant children. Throughout her married life
she had been a professional psychoanalyst. The third, between pregnancies, continued seriously her career as a
dancer. And the fourth, after psychotherapy, was moving
with an increasingly serious commitment into politics.
I reported back to my guide and said that while all four
seemed "fulfilled" women, none were full-time housewives
and one, after all, was a member of his own profession.
"That's a coincidence with those four," he said. But I wondered if it was a coincidence.
In another community, I was directed to a woman who,
my informant said, was truly fulfilled as a housewife ("she
even bakes her own bread"). I discovered that during the
years when her four children were under six and she wrote
on the census blank "Occupation: housewife," she had

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

225

learned a new language (with certification to teach) and
had used her previous training in music first as volunteer
church organist and then as a paid professional. Shortlyafter I interviewed her, she took a teaching position.
In many instances, however, the women I interviewed
truly fitted the new image of f~minine fulfillment-four,
five, or six children, baked their own bread, helped build
the house with their own hands, sewed all their children's
clothes. These women had had no dreams of career, no
visions of a world larger than the home; all energy was centered on their lives as housewives and mothers; their only
ambition, their only dream already realized. But were they
fulfilled women?
In one upper-income development where I interviewed,
there were twenty-eight wives. Some were college graduates in their thirties or early forties; the younger wives had
usually quit college to marry. Their husbands were, to a
rather high degree, engrossed in challenging professional
work. Only one of these wives worked professionally; most
had made a career of motherhood with a dash of community activity. Nineteen out of the twenty-eight had had natural childbirth (at dinner parties there, a few years ago,
wives and husbands often got down on the floor to practice
the proper relaxing exercises together). Twenty of the
twenty-eight breastfed their babies. At or near forty, many
of these women were pregnant. The mystique of feminine
fulilllment was so literally followed in this community that
if a little girl said: "When I grow up, I'm going to be a doctor," her mother would correct her: "No, dear, you're a
girl. You're going to be a wife and mother, like mummy."
But what was mummy really like? Sixteen out of the
twenty-eight were in analysis or analytical psychotherapy.
Eighteen were taking tranquilizers; several had tried suicide; and some had been hospitalized for varying periods,
for depression or vaguely diagnosed psychotic states.
("You'd be surprised at the number of these happy suburban wives who simply go berserk one night, and run shrieking through the street without any clothes on," said the local doctor, not a psychiatrist, who had been called in, in
such emergencies.) Of the women who breastfed their babies, one had continued, desperately, until the child was so
undernourished that her doctor intervened by force. Twelve
were engaged in extramarital affairs in fact or in fantasy.
These were fine, intelligent American women, to be en-

226

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

vied for their homes, husbands, children, and for their personal gifts of mind and spirit. Why were so many of them
driven women? Later, when I saw this same pattern repeated over and over again in similar suburbs, I knew it
could hardly be coincidence. These women were alike
mainly in one regard: they had uncommon gifts of intelligence and ability nourished by at least the beginnings of
higher education-and the life they were leading as suburban housewives denied them the full use of their gifts.
It was in these women that I first began to notice the
tell-tale signs of the problem that has no name; their voices
were dull and fiat, or nervous and jittery; they were listless
and bored, or frantically "busy" around the house or community. They talked about "fulfillment" in the wife-andmother terms of the mystique, but they were desperately
eager to talk about this other "problem," with which they
seemed very familiar indeed.
One woman had pioneered the search for good teachers
in her community's backward school system; she had served
her term on the school board. When her children had all
started school, she had thought seriously at thirty-nine
about her own future: should she go back to college, get an
M.A., and become a professional teacher herself? But then,
suddenly, she had decided not to go on-she had a late
baby instead, her fifth. I heard that fiat tone in her voice
when she told me she had now retired from community
leadership to "major again in the home."
I heard the same sad, fiat tone in an older woman's voice
as she told me:
I'm looking for something to satisfy me. I think it
would be the most wonderful thing in the world to work,
to be useful. But I don't know how to do anything. My
husband doesn't believe in wives working. I'd cut off both
my arms if I could have my children little, and at home
again. My husband says, find something to occupy yourself that you'll enjoy, why should you work? So now I
play golf, nearly every day, just myself. When you walk
three, four hours a day, at least you can sleep at night.
I interviewed another woman in the huge kitchen of a
house she had helped build herself. She was busily kneading the dough for her famous homemade bread; a dress she
was making for a daughter was half-finished on the sewing

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

227

machine; a handloom stood in one corner. Children's art
materials and toys were strewn all over the floor of the
house, from front door to stove: in this expensive modern
house, like many of the open-plan houses in this era, there
was no door at all between kitchen and living room. Nor
did this mother have any dream or wish or thought or frustration of her own to separate her from her children. She
was pregnant now with her seventh; her happiness was complete, she said, spending her days with her children. Perhaps here was a happy housewife.
But just before I left, I said, as an afterthought, that 1
guessed she was joking when she mentioned that she envied
her neighbor, who was a professional designer as well as
the mother of three children. "No, I wasn't joking," she
said; and this serene housewife, kneading the dough for the
bread she always made herself, started to cry. "I envy her
terribly," she said. "She knows what she wants to do. 1
don't know. I never have. When I'm pregnant and the babies are little, I'm somebody, finally, a mother. But then,
they get older. I can't just keep on having babies."
While I never found a woman who actually fitted that
"happy housewife" image, 1 noticed something else about
these able women who were leading their lives in the protective shade of the feminine mystique. They were so busy
-busy shopping, chauffeuring, using their dishwashers and
dryers and electric mixers, busy gardening, waxing, polishing, helping with the children's homework, collecting for
mental health, and doing thousands of little chores. In the
course of my interviews with these women, 1 began to see
that there was something peculiar about the time housework takes today.
On one suburban road there were two colonial houses,
each with a big, comfortable living room, a small library, a
formal dining room, a big cheerful kitchen, four bedrooms,
an acre of garden and lawn, and, in each family, one commuting husband and three school-age children. Both houses
were well-kept, with a cleaning woman two days a week;
but the cooking and the other housework was done by the
wife, who in each case was in her late thirties, intelligent, healthy, attractive, and well-educated.
In the first house, Mrs. W., a full-time housewife, was
busy most of every day with cooking, cleaning, shopping,
chauffeuring, taking care of the children. Next door Mrs.

228

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

D., a microbiologist, got most of these chores done before
she left for her laboratory at nine, or after she got home at
five-thirty. In neither family were the children neglected,
though Mrs. D.'s were slightly more self-reliant. Both
women entertained a fair amount. Mrs. W., the housewife,
did a lot of routine community work, but she did not "have
time" to take a policy-making office-which she was often
offered as an intelligent capable woman. At most, she headed a committee to run a dance, or a PTA fair. Mrs. D.,
the scientist, did no routine community work, but, in addition to her job and home, played in a dedicated string
quintet (music was her main interest outside of science),
and held a policy-making post in the world-affairs organization which had been an interest since 'College.
How could the same size house and the same size family,
under almost identical conditions of income, outside help,
style of life, take so much more of Mrs. W.'s time than of
Mrs. D.'s? And Mrs. W. was never idle, really. She never
had time in the evening to "just read," as Mrs. D. often did.
In a large, modern apartment building in a big eastern
city, there were two six-room apartments, both a little untidy, except when the cleaning woman had just left, or before a party. Both the G.'s and the R.'s had three children
under ten, one still a baby. Both husbands were in their
early thirties, and both were in demanding professional
work. But Mr. G., whose wife is a full-time housewife, was
expected to do, and did, much more housework when he
got home at night or on Saturday than Mr. R., whose wife
was a free-lance illustrator and evidently had to get the
same amount of housework done in between the hours she
spent at her drawing ,table. Mrs. G. somehow couldn't get
her housework done before her husband came home at
night and was so tired then that he had to do it. Why did
Mrs. R., who did not count the housework as her main job,
get it done in so much less time?
I noticed this pattern again and again, as I interviewed
women who defined themselves as "housewives," and compared them to the few who pursued professions, part or
full time. The same pattern held even where both housewife and professional had full-time domestic help, though
more often the "housewives" chose to do their own housework, full time, even when they could well afford two servants. But I also discovered that many frantically busy full-

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

229

time housewives were amazed to find that they could polish
off in one hour the housework that used to take them sixor was still undone at dinnertime-as soon as they started
studying, or working, or had some other serious interest
outside the home.
Toying with the question, how can one hour of housework expand to fill six hours (same house, same work, same
wife), I came back again to the basic paradox of the feminine mystique: that it emerged to glorify woman's role as
housewife at the very moment when the barriers to her full
participation in society were lowered, at the very moment
when science and education and her own ingenuity made it
possible for a woman to be both wife and mother and to
take an active part in the world outside the home. The
glorification of "woman's role," then, seems to be in proportion to society's reluctance to treat women as complete
human beings; for the less real function that role has, the
more it is decorated with meaningless details to conceal its
emptiness. This phenomenon has been noted, in general
terms, in the annals of social science and in history-the
chivalry of the Middle Ages, for example, and the artificial
pedestal of the Victorian woman-but it may come as
somewhat of a shock to the emancipated American woman
to discover that it applies in a concrete and extreme degree
to the housewife's situation in America today.
Did the new mystique of separate-but-equal femininity
arise because the growth of women in America could no
longer be repressed by the old mystique of feminine inferiority? Could women be prevented from realizing their full
capabilities by making their role in the home equal to man's
role in society? "Woman's place is in the home" could no
longer be said in tones of contempt. Housework, washing
dishes, diaper-changing had to be dressed up by the new
mystique to become equal to splitting atoms, penetrating
outer space, creating art that illuminates human destiny,
pioneering on the frontiers of society. It had to become
the very end of life itself to conceal the obvious fact that it
is barely the beginning.
When you look at it tj1is way, the double deception of the
feminine mystique becomes quite apparent:
1. The more a woman is deprived of function in society
at the level of her own ability, the more her housework,
mother-work, wife-work, will expand-and the more she

230

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

will resist finishing her housework or mother-work, and being without any function at all. (Evidently human nature
also abhors a vacuum, even in women.)
2. The time required to do the housework for any given
woman varies inversely with the challenge of the other
work to which she is committed. Without any outside interests, a woman is virtually forced to devote her every moment to the trivia of keeping house.
The simple principle that "Work Expands to Fill the
Time Available" was first formulated by the Englishman
C. Northcote Parkinson on the basis of his experience with
administrative bureaucracy in World War II. Parkinson's
Law can easily be reformulated for the American housewife: Housewifery Expands to Fill the Time Available, or
Motherhood Expands to Fill the Time Available, or even
Sex Expands to Fill the Time Available. This is, without
question, the true explanation for the fact that even with
all the new labor-saving appliances, the modern American
housewife probably spends more time on housework than
her grandmother. It is also part of the explanation for our
national preoccupation with sex and love, and for the continued baby boom.
Tabling for the moment the sexual implications, which
are vast, let's consider some of the dynamics of the law itself, as an explanation for the disposal of feminine energy
in America. To go back several generations: I have suggested that the real cause both of feminism and of women's
frustratiOn was the emptiness of the housewife's role. The
maj~r work and decisions of society were taking place outside the home, and women felt the need, or fought for the
right, to participate in this work. If women had gone on to
use their newly-won education and find new identity in this
work outside the home, the mechanics of housewifery
would have taken the same subsidiary place in their lives as
car and garden and workbench in man's life. Motherhood,
wifehood, sexual love, family responsibility, would merely
have acquired a new emotional importance, as they have
for men. (Many observers have noticed the new joy
American men have been taking in their children-as their
own work week is shortened-without that edge of anger
women whose children are their work seem to feel.)
But when the mystique of feminine fulfillment sent
women back home again, housewifery had to expand into
a full-time career. Sexual love and motherhood had to be-

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

231

come all of life, had to use up, to dispose of women's creative energies. The very nature of family responsibility had
to expand to take the place of responsibility to society. As
this began to happen, each labor-saving appliance brought
a labor-demanding elaboration of housework. Each scientific advance that might have freed women from the drudgery of cooking, cleaning, and washing, thereby giving her
more time for other purposes, instead imposed new drudgery, until housework not only expanded to fill the time
available, but could hardly be done in the available time.
The automatic clothes dryer does not save a woman the
four or five hours a week she used to spend at the clothesline, if, for instance, she runs her washing machine and dryer every day. After all, she still has to load and unload the
machine herself, sort the clothes and put them away. As a
young mother said, "Clean sheets twice a week are now
possible. Last week, when my dryer broke down, the sheets
didn't get changed for eight days. Everyone complained.
We all felt dirty. I felt guilty. Isn't that silly?"!
The modern American housewife spends far more time
washing, drying, and ironing than her mother. If she has an
electric freezer or mixer, she spends more time cooking
than a woman who does not have these labor-saving appliances. The home freezer, simply by existing, takes up
time: beans, raised in the garden, must be prepared for
freezing. If you have an electric mixer, you have to use it:
those elaborate recipes with the pureed chestnuts, watercress, and almonds take longer than broiling lamb chops.
According to a Bryn Mawr survey made just after the
war, in a typical United States farm family, housework
took 60.55 hours a week; 78.35 hours in cities under 100,000; 80.57 in cities of over 100,000. 2 With all their appliances, the suburban and city housewives spend more time
on housework than the busy farmer's wife. That farmer's
wife, of course, has quite a lot of other work to do.
In the 1950's, sociologists and home economists reported
puzzlement, and baffling inconsistencies, as to the amount
of time American women were still spending on housework. Study after study revealed that American housewives
were spending almost as many, or even more, hours a day
on housekeeping as women thirty years earlier, despite the
smaller, easier-to-care-for homes, and despite the fact that
they had seven times as much capital equipment in housekeeping appliances. There were, however, some exceptions.

232

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Women who worked many hours a week outside the home
-either in paid jobs or community work-did the housekeeping, on which the full-time housewife still spent sixty
hours a week, in half the time. They still seemed to do all
the homemaking activities of the housewife-meals, shopping, cleaning, the children-but even with a thirty-fivehour work week on the job, their work week was only an
hour and a half a day longer than the housewife's. That this
strange phenomenon caused so little comment was due to
the relative scarcity of such women. For the even stranger
phenomenon, the real significance of which the mystique
hid, was the fact that, despite the growth of the American
population and the movement of that popUlation from
farm to city with the parallel growth of American industry
and professions, in the first fifty years of the twentieth century the proportion of American women working outside
the home increased very little indeed, while the proportion
of American women in the professions actually declined. 3
From nearly half the nation's professional force in 1930,
women had dropped to only 35 per cent in 1960, despite
the fact that the number of women college graduates had
nearly tripled. The phenomenon was the great increase in
the numbers of educated women choosing to be just housewives.
And yet, for the suburban and city housewife, the fact
remains that more and more of the jobs that used to be
performed in the home have been taken away: canning,
baking bread, weaving cloth and making clothes, educating
the young, nursing the sick, taking care of the aged. It is
possible for women to reverse history-or kid themselves
that they can reverse it-by baking their own bread, but
the law does not permit them to teach their own children
at home, and few housewives would match their so-called
generalist's skill with the professional expertise of doctor
and hospital to nurse a child through tonsillitis or pneumonia at home.
There is a real basis, then, for the complaint that so many
housewives have: "1 feel so empty somehow, useless, as if
1 don't exist." "At times 1 feel as though the world is going past my door while 1 just sit and watch." This very
sense of emptiness, this uneasy denial of the world outside
the home, often drives the housewife to even more effort,
more frantic housework to keep the future out of sight.

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

233

And the choices the housewife makes to fill that emptiness
-though she seems to make them for logical and necessary reasons-trap her further in trivial domestic routine.
The woman with two children, for example, bored and
restive in her city apartment, is driven by her sense of futility and emptiness to move, "for the children's sake," to a
spacious house in the suburbs. The house takes longer to
clean, the shopping and gardening and chauffeuring and
do-it-yourself routines are so time-consuming that, for a
while, the emptiness seems solved. But when the house is
furnished, and the children are in school and the family's
place in the community has jelled, there is "nothing to look
forward to," as one woman I interviewed put it. The empty
feeling returns, and so she must redecorate the living room,
or wax the kitchen floor more often than necessary-or
have another baby. Diapering that baby, along with all the
other housework, may keep her running so fast that she
will indeed need her husband's help in the kitchen at night.
Yet none of it is quite as real, quite as necessary, as it
seems.
One of the great changes in America, since World War
II, has been the explosive movement to the suburbs, those
ugly and endless sprawls which are becoming a national
problem. Sociologists point out that a distinguishing feature
of these suburbs is the fact that the women who live there
are better educated than city women, and that the great
majority are full-time housewives.!
At first glance, one might suspect that the very growth
and existence of the suburbs causes educated modern
American women to become and remain full-time housewives. Or did the postwar suburban explosion come, at least
in part, as a result of the coincidental choice of millions
of American women to "seek fulfillment in the home?"
Among the women I interviewed, the decision to move to
the suburbs "for the children's sake" followed the decision
to give up job or profession and become a full-time housewife, usually after the birth of the first baby, or the second,
depending on the age of the woman when the mystique hit.
With the youngest wives, of course; the mystique hit so
early that the choice of marriage and motherhood as a
full-time career ruled out education for any profession, and
the move to the suburbs came with marriage or as soon as
the wife no longer had to work to support her husband
, through college or law school.

234

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Families where the wife intends to pursue a definite professional goal are less likely to move to the suburbs. In the
city, of course, there are more and better jobs for educated
women; more universities, sometimes free, with evening
courses, geared to men who work during the day, and often
more convenient than the conventional daytime program
for a young mother who wants to finish college or work toward a graduate degree. There is also a better supply of
full or part-time nurses and cleaning help, nursery schools,
day-care centers, after-~chool play programs. But these
considerations are only important to the woman who has
commitments outside the home.
There is also less room for housewifery to expand to fill
the time available, in the city. That sense of restless "marking time" comes early to the educated, able city housewife,
even though, when her babies are little, the time is more
than filled with busyness-wheeling the carriage back and
forth in the park. sitting on the playground bench because
the children can't play outside alone. Still, there's no room
in the city apartment for a home freezer, no garden to
grow beans in. And all the organizations in the city are so
big; the libraries are already built; professionals run the
nursery schools and recreation programs.
It is not surprising, then, that many young wives vote for
a move to the suburbs as soon as possible. Like the empty
plains of Kansas that tempted the restless immigrant, the
suburbs in their very newness and lack of structured service, offered, at least at first, a limitless challenge to the
energy of educated American women. The women who
were strong enough. independent enough, seized the opportunity and were leaders and innovators in these new
communities. But, in most cases, these were women educated before the era of feminine fulfillment. The ability of
suburban life to fulfill, or truly use the potential of the able,
educated American woman seems to depend on her own
previous autonomy or self-realization-that is, on her
strength to resi,t the pressures to conform, resist the timefilling busywork of suhurban house and community, and
find, or make, the same kind of serious commitment outside the home that she would have made in the city. Such
a commitment in the suhurbs, in the beginning at least,
was likely to be on a volunteer basis, but it w~ur challenging, and necessary.
When the mystique took over, however, a new breed of

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

235

women came to the suburbs. They were I,ooking for sanctuary; they were perfectly willing to accept the suburban
community as they found it (their only problem was "how
to fit in"); they were perfectly willing to fill their days with
the trivia of housewifery. Women of this kind, and most of
those that I interviewed were of the post-1950 college
generation, refuse to take policy-making positions in community organizations; they will only collect for Red Cross
or March of Dimes or Scouts or be den mothers or take
the lesser PTA jobs. Their resistance to serious community
responsibility is usually explained by "I can't take the time
from my family." But much of their time is spent in meaningless busywork. The kind of community work they choose
does not challenge their intelligence-or even, sometimes,
fill a real function. Nor do they derive much personal satisfaction from it-but it does fill time.
So, increasingly, in the new bedroom suburbs, the really
interesting volunteer jobs-the leadership of the cooperative nurseries, the free libraries, the school board posts, the
selectmenships and, in some suburbs, even the PTA presidencies-are filled by men. 5 The housewife who doesn't
"have time" to take serious responsibility in the community,
like the woman who doesn't "have time" to pursue a professional career, evades a serious commitment through
which she might finally realize herself; she evades it by
stepping up her domestic routine until she is truly trapped.
The dimensions of the trap seem physically unalterable,
as the busyness that fills the housewife's day seems inescapably neceSsary. But is that domestic trap an illusion, despite
its all-too-solid reality, an illusion created by the feminine
mystique? Take, for instance, the open plan of the contemporary "ranch" or split-level house, $14,990 to $54,990,
which has been built in the millions from Roslyn Heights
to the Pacific Palisades. They give the illusion of more space
for less money. But the women to whom they are sold almost have to live the feminine mystique. There are no true
walls or doors; the woman in the beautiful electronic kitchen is never separated from her children. She need never
feel alone for a minu~, need never be by herself. She can
forget her own identity in those noisy open-plan houses.
The open plan also helps expand the housework to fill the
time available. In what is basicaIJy one free-flowing room,
instead of many rooms separated by waIJs and stairs, continual messes continually need picking up. A man, of

236

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

course, leaves the house for most of the day. But the feminine mystique forbids the woman this.
A friend of mine, an able writer turned fulI-time housewife, had her suburban dream house designed by an architect to her own specifications, during the period when she
defined herself as housewife and no longer wrote. The
house, which cost approximately $50,000, was almost literalIy one big kitchen. There was a separate studio for her
husband, who was a photographer, and cubbyholes for
sleeping, but there wasn't any place where she could get
out of the kitchen, !\way from her children, during the
working hours. The gorgeous mahogany and stainless steel
of her custom-built kitchen cabinets and electric appliances
were indeed a dream, but when I saw that house, I wondered where, if she ever wanted to write again, she would
put her typewriter.
It's strange how few places there are in those spacious
houses and those sprawling suburbs where you can go to
be alone. A sociologist's study of upper-income suburban
wives who married young and woke, after fifteen years of
child-living, PTA, do-it-yourself, garden-and-barbecue, to
the realization that they wanted to do some real work themselves, found that the ones who did something about this
often moved back to the city.6 But among the women I
talked to, this moment of personal truth was more likely
to be marked by adding a room with a door to their openplan house, or simply by putting a door on one room in
the house, "so I can have someplace to myself, just a door
to shut between me and the children when I want to think"
--or work, study, be alone.
Most American housewives, however, do not shut that
door. Perhaps they are afraid, finally, to be alone in that
room. As another social scientist said, the American housewife's dilemma is that she does not have the privacy to follow real interests of her own, but even if she had more
time and space to herself, she would not know what to do
with it. 7 If she makes a career of marriage and motherhood, as the mystique tells her, if she becomes the executive of the house-and has enough children to give her
quite a business to run-if she exerts the human strength,
which she is forbidden by the mystique to exert elsewhere,
on running a perfect house and supervising her children and
sharing her husband's career in such omnipresent detail
that she has only a few minutes to spare for community

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

237

work, and no time for serious larger interests, who is to
say that this is not as important, as good a way to spend a
life, as mastering the secrets of the atoms or the stars, composing symphonies, pioneering a new concept in government or society?
For the very able woman, who has the ability to create
culturally as well as biologically, the only possible rationalization is to convince herself-as the new mystique tries
so hard to convince her-that the minute physical details
of child care are indeed mystically creative; that her children will be tragically deprived if she is not there every
minute; that the dinner she gives the boss's wife is as crucial
to her husband's career as the case he fights in court or the
problem he solves in the laboratory. And because husband
and children are soon out of the house most of the day, she
must keep on having new babies, or somehow make the
minutiae of housework itself important enough, necessary
enough, hard enough, creative enough to justify her very
existence.
If a woman's whole existence is to be justified in this
way, if the housewife's work is really so important, so necessary, why should anyone raise an eyebrow because a latter-day Einstein's wife expects her husband to put aside that
lifeless theory of relativity and help her with the work that
is supposed to be the essence of life itself: diaper the baby
and don't forget to rinse the soiled diaper in the toilet before putting it in the diaper pail, and then wax the kitchen
floor.
The most glaring proof that, no matter how elaborate,
"Occupation: housewife" is not an adequate substitute for
truly challenging work, important enough to society to be
paid for in its coin, arose from the comedy of "togetherness." The women acting in this little morality play were
told that they had the starring roles, that their parts were
just as important, perhaps even more important than the
parts their husbands played in the world outside the home.
Was it unnatural that, since they were doing such a vital
job, women insisted that their husbands share in the housework? Surely it was an unspoken guilt, an unspoken realization of their wives' entrapment, that made so many men
comply, with varying degrees of grace, to their wives' demands. But having their husbands share the housework
didn't really compensate women for being shut out of the
larger world. If anything, by removing still more of their

238

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

functions, it increased their sense of individual emptiness.
They needed to share vicariously more and more of their
children's and husbands' lives. Togetherness was a poor
substitute for equality; the glorification of women's role
was a poor substitute for free participation in the world as
an individual.
The true emptiness beneath the American housewife's
routine has been revealed in many ways. In Minneapolis recently a schoolteacher named Maurice K. Enghausen read
a story in the local newspaper about the long work week
of today's housewife. Declaring in a letter to the editor that
"any woman who puts in that many hours is awfully slow,
a poor budgeter of time, or just plain inefficient," this
thirty-six-year-old bachelor offered to take over any household and show how it could be done.
Scores of irate housewives dared him to prove it. He took
over the household of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Dalton, with
four children, aged two to seven, for three days. In a single
day, he cleaned the first floor, washed three loads of clothes
and hung them out to dry, ironed all the laundry including
underwear and sheets, fixed a soup-and-sandwich lunch and
a big backyard supper, baked two cakes, prepared two salads for the next day, dressed, undressed, and bathed the
children, washed woodwork and scrubbed the kitchen floor.
Mrs. Dalton said he was even a better cook than she was.
"As for cleaning," she said, "I am more thorough, but perhaps that is unnecessary."
Pointing out that he had kept house for himself for seven
years and had earned money at college by housework, Enghausen said, "I still wish that teaching 115 students were as
easy as handling four children and a house . . . I still
maintain that housework is not the interminable chore that
women claim it is. "8
This claim, periodically expressed by men privately and
publicly, has been borne out by a recent time-motion study.
Recording and analyzing every movement made by a group
of housewives, this study concluded that most of the energy
expended in housework is superfluous. A series of intensive
studies sponsored by the Michigan Heart Association at
Wayne University disclosed that "women were working
more than twice as hard as they should," squandering energy through habit and tradition in wasted motion and unneeded steps.
The puzzling question of "housewife's fatigue" sheds ad-

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

239

ditional light. Doctors in many recent medical conventions
report failure to cure it or get to its cause. At a meeting
of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, a Cleveland doctor stated that mothers, who cannot
get over "that tired feeling" and complain that their doctors are no help, are neither sick nor maladjusted, but actually tired. "No psychoanalysis or deep probing is ·necessary," said Dr. Leonard Lovshin, of the Cleveland Clinic.
"She has a work day of sixteen hours, a work week of seven
days . . . . Being conscientious, she gets involved in Cubs,
Brownies, PTA's, heart drives, church work, hauling children to music and dancing." But strangely enough, he remarked, neither the housewife's workload nor her fatigue
seemed affected by how many children she had. Most of
these patients had only one or two. "A woman with one
child just worries four times as much about the one as the
woman with four children, and it all comes out even," Dr.
Lovshin said.
Some doctors, finding nothing organically wrong with
these chronically tired mothers, told them, "It's all in your
mind"; others gave them pills, vitamins, or injections for
anemia, low blood pressure, low metabolism, or put them
on diets (the average housewife is twelve to fifteen pounds
overweight), deprived them of drinking (there are approximately a million known alcoholic housewives in America),
or gave them tranquilizers. All such treatments were futile, Dr. Lovshin said, because these mothers were truly
tired. 9
Other doctors, finding that such mothers get as much or
more sleep than they need, claimed the basic cause was not
fatigue but boredom. This problem became so severe that
the women's magazines treated it fulsomely-in the Pollyanna terms of the feminine mystique. In a spate of articles
that appeared in the late 1950's, the "cures" suggested were
usually of the more-praise-and-appreciation-from-husband
variety, even though the doctors interviewed in these articles indicated clearly enough that the cause was in the
"housewife-mother" role. But the magazines drew their
usual conclusion: that is, and always will be woman's lot,
and she just has to make the best of it. Thus, Redbook
("Why Young Mothers Are Always Tired," September,
1959) reports the findings of the Baruch study of chronicfatigue patients:

240

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Fatigue of any kind is a signal that something is
wrong. Physical fatigue protects the organism from injury through too great activity of any part of the body.
Nervous fatigue, on the other hand, is usually a warning
of danger to the personality. This comes out very clearly
in the woman patient who complaills bitterly that she is
"just a housewife," that she is wasting her talents and
education on household drudgery and losing her attractiveness, her intelligence, and indeed her very identity as
a person, explains Dr. Harley C. Sands, one of the coheads of the Baruch project. In industry the most fatiguing jobs are those which only partially occupy the work-er's attention, but at the same time prevent him from
concentrating on anything else. Many young wives say
that this mental gray-out is what bothers them most in
caring for home and children. "After a while your mind
becomes a blank," they say. "You can't concentrate on
anything. It's like sleep-walking."
The magazine also quotes a Johns Hopkins psychiatrist
to the effect that the major factor which produces chronic
fatigue in patients was "monotony unpunctuated by any
major triumph or disaster," noting that this "sums up the
predicament of many a young mother." It even cites the
results of the University of Michigan study in which of 524
women asked "what are some of the things which make
you feel 'useful and important,''' almost none answered
"housework"; among the women who had jobs, "the overwhelming majority, married and single, felt that the job was
more satisfying than the housework." At this point the magazine interjects editorially: "This, of course, does not mean
that a career is the alternative to fatigue for a young mother. If anything, the working mother may have more troubles than the housebound young matron." The magazine's
happy conclusion: "Since the demands of housework and
child-rearing are not very flexible, there is no complete solution to chronic-fatigue problems. Many women, however,
can cut down fatigue if they stop asking too much of themselves. By trying to understand realistically what she canand, more important, what she cannot-do, a woman may,
in the long run, be a better wife and mother, albeit a tired
one."
Another such article ("Is Boredom Bad for You?" McCall's, April, 1957) asked, "Is the housewife's chronic fa-

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

241

tigue really boredom?" and answers: "Yes. The chronic fatigue of many housewives is brought on by the repetition of
their jobs, the monotony of the setting, the isolation and the
lack of stimulation. The heavy household chores, it's been
found, aren't enough to explain the fatigue. • • • The more
your intelligence exceeds your job requirements, the greater
your boredom. This is so to such an extent that experienced employers never hire above-average brains for routine jobs. • . . It is this boredom plus, of course, the dayto-day frustrations which makes the average housewife's
job more emotionally fatiguing than her husband's." The
cure: "honest enjoyment in some part of the job such as
cooking or an incentive such as a party in the offing and,
above all, male praise are good antidotes for domestic boredom."
For the women I interviewed, the problem seemed to be
not that too much was asked of them, but too little. "A
kind of torpor comes over me when I get home from the
errands," one woman told me. "It's as if there's nothing I
really have to do, tholigb there's plenty to do around the
bouse. So I keep a bottle of martinis in the refrigerator, and
I pour myself some so I'll feel more like doing something.
Or just to get through till Don comes home."
Other women eat, as they stretch out the housework, just
to fill the time available. Obesity and alcoholism, as neuroses, have often been related to personality patterns that
stem from childhood. But does this explain why so many
American housewives around forty have the same dull and
lifeless look; does it explain their lack of vitality, the deadly
sameness of their lives, the furtive between-meal snacks,
drinks, tranquilizers, sleeping pills? Even given the various
personalities of these women, there must be something in
the nature of their work, of the lives they lead, that drives
them to these escap~s.
This is no less true of the American housewife's work
than it is of the work of most American men, on the assembly lines or in corporation offices: work that does not
fully use a man's capacities leaves in him a vacant, empty
need for escap~television, tranquilizers, alcohol, sex. But
the husbands of the women I interviewed were often engaged in work that demanded ability, responsibility, and
decision. I noticed that when these men were saddled with
a domestic chore, they polished it off in much less time than
it seemed to take their wives. But, of course, for them this

242

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

was never the work that justified their lives. Whether they
put more energy into it for this reason, just to get it over
with, or whether housework did not have to take so much
of their energy, they did it more quickly and sometimes
even seemed to enjoy it more.
Social critics, during the togetherness era, often complained that men's careers suffered because of all this
housework. But most husbands of the women I interviewed
didn't seem to let housework interfere with their careers.
When husbands did that bit of housework evenings and
weekends because their wives had careers, or because their
wives had made such a career of housework they could not
get it done themselves, or because their wives were too passive, dependent, helpless to get it done, or even because
the wives left housework for their husbands, for revengeit did not expand.
But I noticed that housework did tend to expand to fill
the time available with a few husbands who seemed to be
using domestic chores as an excuse for not meeting the
challenge of their own careers. "I wish he wouldn't insist on
vacuuming the whole house on Tuesday evenings. It doesn't
need it and he could be working on his book," the wife of
a college professor told me. A capable social worker herself, she had managed all her professional life to work out
ways of caring for her house and children without hiring
servants. With her daughter's help, she did her own thorough housecleaning on Saturday; it didn't need vacuuming
on Tuesday.
To do the work that you are capable of doing is the
mark of maturity. It is not the demands of housework and
children, or the absence of servants, that keep most American women from growing up to do the work of which they
are capable In an earlier era when servants were plentiful,
most of the middleclass women who hired them did not
use their freedom to take a more active part in society;
they were confined by "woman's role" to leisure. In countries like Israel and Russia, where women are expected to
be more than just housewives, servants scarcely exist, and
yet home and children and love are evidently not neglected.
It is the mystique of feminine fulfillment, and the immaturity it breeds, that prevents women from doing the
work of which they are capable. It is not strange that
women who have lived for ten or twenty years within the
mystique, or who adjusted to it so young that they have

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE
I

243

never experienced being on their own, should be afraid to
face the test of real work in the world and cling to their
identity as housewives-even if, thereby, they doom themselves to feeling "empty, useless, as if I do not exist." That
housewifery can, must, expand to fill the time available
when there is no other purpose in life seems fairly evident.
After all, with no other purpose in her life, if the housework were done in an hour, and the children off to school,
the bright, energetic housewife would find the emptiness of
her days unbearable.
So a Scarsdale woman fired her maid, and even doing
her own housework and the usual community work, could
not use up all her energy. "We solved the problem," she
said, speaking of herself and a friend who had tried to commit suicide. "We go bowling three mornings a week. Otherwise, we'd go out of our minds. At least, now we can sleep
at night." "There's always some way you can get rid of it,"
I heard one woman saying to another over lunch at
Schrafft's, debating somewhat listlessly what to do with the
"afternoon off" from housewifery that their doctors had
ordered. Diet foods and exercise salons have become a lucrative business in that futile battle to take off the fat that
cannot be turned into human energy by the American
housewife. It is slightly shocking to think that intelligent,
educated American women are forced to "get rid of" their
creative human energy by eating a chalky powder and
wrestling with a machine. But no one is shocked to realize
that getting rid of women's creative energy, rather than using it for some larger purpose in society, is the very essence of being a housewife.
To live according to the feminine mystique depends on a
reversal of history, a devaluation of human progress. To
get women back into the home again, not like the Nazis, by
ordering them there, but by "propaganda with a view to
restoring woman's sens~ of prestige and self-esteem as
women, actual or potential mothers . . . women who live
as women," meant that women had to resist their own
"technological unemployment." The canning plants and
bakeries did not close down, but even the mystique makers
felt the need to defend themselves against the question,
"are we, in suggesting that women might, of their own volition, recapture some of their functions around the home, .
such as cooking, preserving and decorating, trying to turn
back the clock of progress?"l0

244

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Progress is not progress, they argued; in theory, the freeing of women from household drudgery liberates them for
the cultivation of higher aims, but "as such aims are understood, many are called and few are chosen, among men no
less than among women." Therefore, let all women recapture that work in the home which all women can do easily
-and let society stage-manage it so that prestige for
women "be shifted emphatically to those women recognized
as serving society most fully as women."
For fifteen years and longer, there has been a propaganda campaign, as unanimous in this democratic nation as
in the most efficient of dictatorships, to give women
"prestige" as housewives. But can the sense of self in woman, which once rested on necessary work and achievement
in the home, be re-created by housework that is no longer
really necessary or really uses much ability-in a country
and at a time when women can be free, finally, to move on
to something more. It is wrong for a woman, for whatever
reason, to spend her days in work that is not moving as
the world around her is moving, in work that does not
truly use her creative energy. Women themselves are discovering, that though there is always "some way you can
get rid of it," they can have no peace until they begin to
use their abilities.
Surely there are many women in America who are happy
at the moment as housewives, and some whose abilities are
fully used in the housewife role. But happiness is not the
same thing as the aliveness of being fully used. Nor is human intelligence, human ability, a static thing. Housework,
no matter how it is expanded to fill the time available, can
hardly use the abilities of a woman of average or normal
human intelligence, much less the fifty per cent of the female population whose intelligence, in childhood, was
above average.
Some decades ago, certain institutions concerned with
the mentally retarded discovered that housework was peculiarly suited to the capacities of feeble-minded girls. In
many towns, inmates of institutions for the mentally retarded were in great demand as house workers, and housework was much more difficult then than it is now.
Basic decisions as to the upbringing of children, interior
decoration, menu-planning, budget, education, and recreation do involve intelligence, of course. But as it was put by
one of the few home-and-family experts who saw the real

HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL THE TIME AVAILABLE

245

absurdity of the feminine mystique, most housework, the
part that still takes the most time, "can be capably handled
by an eight-year-old child."
The role of the housewife is, therefore, analogous to
that of the president of a corporation who would not
only determine policies and make over-all plans but also
spend the major part of his time and energy in such activities as sweeping the plant and oiling machines. Industry, of course, is too thrifty of the capacities of its
personnel to waste them in such fashion.
The true satisfaction of "creating a home," the personal relationship with husband and children, the atmosphere of hospitality, serenity, culture, warmth, or security a woman gives to the home comes by way of her personality, not her broom, stove, or dishpan. For a woman
to get a rewarding sense of total creation by way of the
multiple monotonous chores that are her daily lot would
be as irrational as for an assembly line worker to rejoice
that he had created an automobile because he tightened
a bolt. It is difficult to see how clearing up after meals
three times a day and making out marketing lists (3
lemons, 2 packages of soap powder, a can of soup), getting at the fuzz in the radiators with the hard rubber
appliance of the vacuum cleaner, emptying wastebaskets
and washing bathroom floors day after day, week after
week, year after year, add up to a sum total of anything
except minutiae that laid end to end reach nowhere. l l
A number of the more disagreeable sexual phenomena
of this era can be seen now as the inevitable result of that
ludicrous consignment of millions of women to spend their
days at work an eight-year-old could do. For no matter
how much the "home-and-family career" is rationalized to
justify such appalling waste of able womanpower; no matter how ingeniously the manipulators coin new scientific
sounding words, "luhrilator" and the like, to give the illusion that dumping the clothes in the washing machines is an
act akin to deciphering the genetic code; no matter how
much housework is expanded to fill the time available, it
still presents little challenge to the adult mind. Into this
mental vacuum have flooded an endless line of books on
gourmet cooking, scientific treatises on child care, and
above all, advice on the techniques of "married love," sex-

I

246

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ual intercourse. These, too, offer little challenge to the adult
mind. The results could almost have been predicted. To the
great dismay of men, their wives suddenly became "experts," know-it-alls, whose unshakable superiority at home,
a domain they both occupied, was impossible to compete
with, and very hard to live with. As Russell Lynes put it,
wives began to treat their husbands as part-time servantsor the latest new appliance. 12 With a snap course in home
economics or marriage and family under her belt and copies of Dr. Spock and Dr. Van de Velde side by side on the
shelf; with all that time, energy and intelligence directed on
husband, children, and house, the young American wifeeasily, inevitably, disastrously-began to dominate the family even more completely than her "mom."

ELEVEN
THE SEX-SEEKERS
I DID NOT DO A KINSEY STUDY. BUT WHEN I WAS ON THE

trail of the problem that has no name, the suburban housewives I interviewed would often give me an explicitly sexual answer to a question that was not sexual at all. I would
ask about their personal interests, ambitions, what they did,
or would like to do, not necessarily as wives or mothers,
but when they were not occupied with their husbands or
their children or their housework. The question might even
be what they were doing with their education. But some of
these women simply assumed that I was asking about sex.
Was the problem that has no name a sexual problem, after
all? I might have thought so, except that when these women
spoke of sex, there was a false note, a strange unreal quality about their words. They made mysterious allusions or
broad hints; they were eager to be asked about sex; even if
I did not a~k, they often took pride in recounting the explicit details of some sexual adventure. They were not making them up; these adventures were real enough. But what
made them sound unsexual, so unreal?
A thirty-eight-year-old mother of four told me sex was
the only thing that made her "feel alive." But something
had gone wrong; her husband did not give her that feeling
anymore. They went through the motions, but he was not
really interested. She was beginning to feel contemptuous of
him in bed. "I need sex to feel alive, but I never really feel
him," she said.
In a flat, mntter-of-fact tone that added to the unreality,
a thirty-year-old mother of five, calmly knitting a sweater,
said she was thinking of going away, to Mexico perhaps,
to live with a man with whom she was having an affair.
She did not love him, but she thought if she gave herself to
him "completely" she might find the feeling that she knew
now was "the only important thing in life." What about the
children? Vaguely, she guessed she would take them along
-he wouldn't mind. What was the feeling she was looking

248

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

for? She had found it at first with her husband, she supposed. At least she remembered that when she married him
-she was eighteen--she had "felt so happy I wanted to
die." But he did not "give himself completely" to her; he
gave so much of himself to his work. So she found that
feeling for a while, she thought, with her children. Shortly
after she weaned her fifth baby from the breast, at three,
she had her first affair. She discovered "it gave me that
wonderful feeling again, to give my whole self to someone
else." But that affair could not last; he had too many children, so did she. He said when they broke up, "You've
given me such a feeling of identity." And she wondered,
"what about my own identity,?" So she went off by herself
for a month that summer, leaving the children with her
husband. "I was looking for .something, I'm not sure what,
but the only way I get that feeling is when I'm in love with
someone." She had another affair, but that time the feeling
did not appear. So with this new one, she wanted to go
away completely. "Now that I know how to get that feeling," she said, knitting calmly, "I will simply keep trying
until I find it again."
She did take off for Mexico with that shadowy, faceless
man, taking her five children with her; but six months later,
she was back, children and all. Evidently she did not find
her phantom "feeling." And whatever happened, it was not
real enough to affect her marriage, which went on as before. Just what was the feeling she expected to get from
sex? And why was it, somehow, always out of reach? Does
sex become unreal, a phantasy, when a person needs it to
feel "alive," to feel "my own identity"?
In another suburb, I spoke to an attractive woman in
her late thirties who had "cultural" interests, though they
were rather vague and unfocused. She started paintings
which she did not finish, raised money for concerts she did
not listen to, said she had not "found her medium yet." I
discovered that she engaged in a sort of sexual status-seeking which had the same vague, unfocused pretentions as
her cultural dabblings, and in fact, was part of it. She
boasted of the intellectual prowess, the professional distinction, of the man who, she hinted, wanted to sleep with her.
"It makes you feel proud, like an achievement. You don't
want to hide it. You want everyone to know, when it's a
man of his stature," she told me. How much she really
wanted to sleep with this man, professional stature or no,

THE SEX·SEEKERS

249

was another question. I later learned from her neighbors
that she was a community joke. Everyone did indeed
"know," but her sexual offerings were so impersonal and
predictable that only a newcomer husband would take them
seriously enough to respond.
But the evidently insatiable sexual need of a slightly
younger mother of four in that same suburb was hardly a
joke. Her sex-seeking, somehow never satisfied despite affair after affair, mixed with much indiscriminate "extramarital petting," as Kinsey would have put it, had real and
disastrous consequences on at least two other marriages.
These women and others like them, the suburban sex-seekers, lived literally within the narrow boundaries of the feminine mystique. They were intelligent, but strangely "incomplete." They had given up attempts to make housework
or community work expand to fill the time available; they
turned instead to sex. But still they were unfulfilled. Their
husbands did not satisfy them, they said; extramarital affairs were no better. In terms of the feminine mystique, if
a woman feels a sense of personal "emptiness," if she is unfulfilled, the cause must be sexual. But why, then, doesn't
sex ever satisfy her?
Just as college girls used the sexual phantasy of married
life to protect them from the conflicts and growing pains
and work of a personal commitment to science, or art, or
society, are these married women putting into their insatiable sexual search the aggressive energies which the feminine mystique forbids them to use for larger human purposes? Are they using sex or sexual phantasy to fill needs
that are not sexual? Is that why their sex, even when it is
real, seems like phantasy? Is that why, even when they experience orgasm, they feel "unfulfilled"? Are they driven to
this never-satisfied sexual seeking because, in their marriages, they have not found the sexual fulfillment which
the feminine mystique promises? Or is that feeling of personal identity, of fulfillment, they seek in sex something
that sex alone cannot give?
Sex is the only frontier open to women who have always
lived within the confines of the feminine mystique. In the
past fifteen years, the sexual frontier has been forced to expand perhaps beyond the limits of possibility, to fill the
time available, to fill the vacuum created by denial of larger goals and purposes for American women. The mounting
sex-hunger of American women has been documented ad

250

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

nauseam-by Kinsey, by the sociologists and novelists of
suburbia, by the mass media, ads, television, movies, and
women's magazines that pander to the voracious female appetite for sex phantasy. It is not an exaggeration to say that
several generations of able American women have been
successfully reduced to sex creatures, sex-seekers. But
something has evidently gone wrong.
Instead of fulfilling the promise of infinite orgastic bliss,
sex in the America of the feminine mystique is becoming
a strangely joyless national compulsion, if not a contemptuous mockery. The sex-glutted novels become increasingly
explicit and increasingly dull; the sex kick of the women's
magazines has a sickly sadness; the endless flow of manuals
describing new sex techniques hint at an endless lack of
excitement. This sexual boredom is betrayed by the evergrowing size of the Hollywood starlet's breasts, by the sudden emergence of the male phallus as an advertising "gimmick." Sex has become depersonalized, seen in terms of
these exaggerated symbols. But of all the strange sexual
phenomena that have appeared in the era of the feminine
mystique, the most ironic are these-the frustrated sexual
hunger of American women has increased, and their conflicts over femininity have intensified, as they have reverted
from independent activity to search for their sole fulfillment through their sexual role in the home. And as American women have turned their attention to the exclusive,
explicit, and aggressive pursuit of sexual fulfillment, or the
acting-out of sexual phantasy, the sexual disinterest of
American men, and their hostility toward women, have also
increased.
I found evidence of these phenomena everywhere. There
is, as I have said, an air of exaggerated unreality ahout sex
today, whether it is pictured in the frankly lascivious pages
of a popular novel or in the curiolls, almost asexual bodies
of the women who pose for fashion photographs. According to Kinsey, there has been no increase in sexual "outlet"
in recent decades. But in the past decade there has been an
enormous increase in the American preoccupation with sex
and sexual . phantasy.!
In Ianuary, 1950, and again in January, 1960, a psychologist studied every reference to sex in Americcn newspapers, magazines, television and radio progrrms. plays,
popular songs, hest-selJing novels and r.onfiction !-.ooh. He
found an enormous increase in explicit references to sexual

THE SEX·SEEKERS

251

desires and expressions (including "nudity, sex organs,
scatology, 'obscenity,' lasciviousness and sexual intercourse"). These constituted over fifty per cent of the observed references to human sexuality, with "extramarital
coitus" (including "fornication, adultery, sexual promiscuity, prostitution and venereal disease") in second place. In
American media there were more than 2V2 times as many
references to sex in 1960 as in 1950, an increase from 509
to 1,341 "permissive" sex references in the 200 media studied. The so-called "men's magazines" not only reached new
excesses in their preoccupation with specific female sex organs, but a rash of magazines blossomed frankly geared to
homosexuality. The most striking new sexual phenomenon,
however, was the increased and evidently "insatiable" lasciviousness of best-selling novels and periodical fiction,
whose audience is primarily women.
Despite his professional approval of the "permissive" attitude to sex compared to its previous hypocritical denial,
the psychologist was moved to speculate:
Descriptions of sex organs . . . are so frequent in
modern novels that one wonders whether they have become requisite for sending a work of fiction into the bestselling lists. Since the old, mild depictions of intercourse
have seemingly lost their ability to excite, and even sex
deviations have now become commonplace in modern
fiction, the current logical step seems to be detailed descriptions of the sex organs themselves. It is difficult to
imagine what the next step in salaciousness will be. 2
From 1950 to 1960 the interest of men in the details of
intercourse paled before the avidity of women-both as
depicted in these media, and as its audience. Already by
1950 the salacious details of the sex act to be found in
men's magazines were outnumbered by those in fiction bestsellers sold mainly to women.
During this same period, the women's magazines displayed an increased preoccupation with sex in a rather
sickly disguise. 3 Such "health" features as "Making Marriage Work," "Can This Marriage Be Saved," "Tell Me,
Doctor," described the most intimate sexual details in moralistic guise as "problems," and women read about them in
much the same spirit as they had read the case histories in
their psychology texts. Movies and the theater betrayed a

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
252
growing preoccupation with diseased or perverted sex,
each new film and each new play a little more sensational
than the last in its attempt to shock or titillate.
At the same time one could see, almost in parallel step,
human sexuality reduced to its narrowest physiological limits in the numberless sociological studies of sex in the suburbs and in the Kinsey investigations. The two Kinsey reports, in 1948 and 1953, treated human sexuality as
a status-seeking game in which the goal was the greatest
number of "outlets," orgasms achieved equally by masturbation, nocturnal emissions during dreams, intercourse with
animals, . and in various postures with the other sex, preextra- or post-marital. What the Kinsey investigators reported and the way they reported it, no less than the sexglutted novels, magazines and plays, were all symptoms
of the increasing depersonalization, immaturity, joylessness and spurious senselessness of our sexual over-preoccupation.
That this spiral of sexual "lust, luridness and lasciviousness" was not exactly a sign of healthy affirmation of human intercourse became apparent as the image of males
lusting after women gave way to the new image of women
lusting after males. Exaggerated, perverted extremes of the
sex situations seemed to be necessary to excite hero and
audience alike. Perhaps the best example of this perverse
reversal was the Italian movie La Dolce Vita, which, with
all its artistic and symbolic pretentions, was a hit in America because of its much-advertised sexual titillation. Though
a comment on Italian sex and society, this particular movie
wflS in the chief characteristics of its sexual preoccupation
devastatingly pertinent to the American scene.
As is increasingly the case in American novels, plays and
movies, the sex-seekers were mainly the women, who were
shown as mindless over- or under-dressed sex creatures
(the Hollywood star) and hysterical parasites (the journalist's girl friend). In addition, there was the promiscuous
rich girl who needed the perverse stimulation of the borrowed prostitute's bed, the aggressively sex-hungry women
in the candlelit "hide and seek" castle orgy, and finally the
divorcee who performed her writhing strip tease to a lonely, bored and indifferent audience.
All the men, in fact, were too bored or too busy to be
bothered. The indifferent, passive hero drifted from one

THE SEX·SEEKERS

253

sex-seeking woman to another-a Don Juan, an implied
homosexual, drawn in phantasy to the asexual little girl,
just out of reach across the water. The exaggerated extremes of the sex situations end finally in a depersonalization that creates a bloated boredom-in hero and audience
alike. (The very tedium of depersonalized sex may also explain the declining audience of Broadway theaters, Hollywood movies and the American novel.) Long before the
final scenes of La Dolce Vita-when they all go out to
stare at that huge bloated dead fish-the message of the
movie was made quite clear: "the sweet life" is dulL
The image of the aggressive female sex-seeker also
comes across in novels like Peyton Place and The Chapman Report-which consciously cater to the female hunger
for sexual phantasy. Whether or not this fictional picture
of the over-lusting female means that American women
have become avid sex-seekers in real life, at least they have
an insatiable appetite for books dealing with the sexual act
-an appetite that, in fiction and real life, does not always
seem to be shared by the men. This discrepancy between
the sexual preoccupation of American men and womenin fiction or reality-may have a simple explanation. Suburban housewives, in particular, are more often sex-seekers than sex-finders, not only because of the problems posed
by children coming home from school, cars parked overtime in driveways, and gossiping servants, but because,
quite simply, men are not all that available. Men in general
spend most of their hours in pursuits and passions that are
not sexual, and have less need to make sex expand to fill
the time available. So, from teen age to late middle age,
American women are doomed to spend most of their lives
in sexual phal)tasy. Even when the sexual affair-or the
"extramarital petting" which Kinsey found on the increase
-is real, it never is as real as the mystique has led the
woman to believe.
As the male author of The Exurbanites puts it:
While her partner may be, and probably is, engaged
in something quite casual to him, accompanied, of
course, by verbal blandishments designed to persuade her
of just the opposite, she is often quite genuinely caught
up in what she conceives to be the real love of her life.
Dismayed by the inadequacies of her marriage, confused

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
254
and unhappy, angry and often humiliated by the behavior
of her husband, she is psychologically prepared for the
man who will skillfully and judiciously apply charm, wit
and seductive behavior. . . . So, at the beach parties,
at the Saturday night parties, on the long car rides from
place to place-on all of which occasions the couples
naturally split up-the first words can be spoken, the
ground first prepared, the first fantasies conjured up, the
first meaningful glance exchanged, the first desperate kiss
snatched. And often, later, when the woman realizes that
what was important to her was casual to him, she can
cry and then she can dry her tears and look around
again.!l

But what happens when a woman bases her whole identity on her sexual role; when sex is necessary to make her
"feel alive"? To state it quite simply, she puts impossible
demands on her own body, her "femaleness," as well as on
her husband and his "maleness." A marriage counselor told
me that many of the young suburban wives he dealt with
make "such heavy demands on love and marriage, but there
is no excitement, no mystery, sometimes almost literally
nothing happens."
It's something she has been trained and educated for,
all this sexual information and preoccupation, this clearly laid out pattern that she must devote herself to becoming a wife and mother. There is no wonder of two
strangers, man and woman, separate beings, finding each
other. It's all laid out ahead of time, a script that's being
followed without the struggle, the beauty, the mysterious
awe of life. And so she says to him, do something, make
me feel something, but there is no power within herself
to evoke this.
A psychiatrist states that he has often seen sex "die a
slow, withering death" when women, or men, use the family "to make up in closeness and affection for failure to
achieve goals and satisfactions in the wider community."5
Sometimes, he told me, "there is so little real life that finally even the sex deteriorates, and gradually dies, and
months go by witrout any desire, though they are young
people." The sexual act "tends to become mechanized and

255
depersonalized, a physical release that leaves the partners
even lonelier after the act than before. The expression of
tender sentiment shrivels. Sex becomes the arena for the
struggle for dominance and control. Or it becomes a drab,
hollow routine, carried out on schedule."
Even though they find no satisfaction in sex, these
women continue their endless search. For the woman who
lives according to the feminine mystique, there is no road
to achievement, or status, or identity, except the sexual
one: the achievement of sexual conquest, status as a desirable sex object, identity as a sexually successful wife and
mother. And yet because sex does not really satisfy these
needs, she seeks to buttress her nothingness with things, until often even sex itself, and the husband and the children
on whom the sexual identity rests, become possessions,
things. A woman who is herself only a sexual object, lives
finally in a world of objects, unable to touch in others the
individual identity she lacks herself.
Is it the need for some kind of identity or achievement
that drives suburban housewives to offer themselves so eagerly to strangers and neighbors-and that makes husbands
"furniture" in their own homes? In a recent novel about
suburban adultery, the male author says through a butcher
who takes advantage of the lonely housewives in the neighborhood:
THE SEX·SEEKERS

"Do you know what America is? It's a big, soapy dishpan of boredom . . . and no husband can understand
that soapy dishpan. And a woman can't explain it to another woman because they've all got their hands in that
same soapy boredom. So all a man has to be is understanding. Yes, baby, I know, I know, you've got a miserable life, here're some flowers, here's some perfume,
here's 'I love you,' take off your pants. . . . You, me,
we're furniture in our own homes. But if we go next
door, ahh! Next door, we're heroes! They're all looking
for romance because they've learned it from books and
movies. And what can be more romantic than a man
who's willing to risk your husband's shotgun to have you .
. . . And the only exciting thing about this guy is that
he is a stranger . . . she doem't own him. She tells herself she's in love, and she's willing to risk her home, her
happiness, her pride, everything, just to be with this

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
256
stranger who fills her once a week. • • • Anyplace
you've got a housewife, you've also got a potential mistress for a stranger."6

Kinsey, from his interviews of 5,940 women, found that
American wives, especially of the middle class, after ten or
fifteen years of marriage, reported greater sexual desire
than their husbands seemed to satisfy. One out of four, by
the age of forty, had engaged in some extramarital activity
-usually quite sporadic. Some seemed insatiably capable
of "multiple orgasms." A growing number engaged in the
"extramarital petting" more characteristic of adolescence.
Kinsey also found that the sexual desire of American husbands, especially in the middle-class educated groups,
seemed to wane as their wives' increased. 7
But even more disturbing than the signs of increased sexual hunger, unfulfilled, among American housewives in this
era of the feminine mystique are the signs of increased
conflict over their own femaleness. There is evidence that
the signs of feminine sexual conflict, often referred to by
the euphemism of "female troubles," occur earlier than
ever, and in intensified form, in this era when women have
sought to fulfill themselves so early and exclusively in sexual terms.
The chief of the gynecological service of a famous hospital told me that he sees with increasing frequency in young
mothers the same impairment of the ovarian cycle--vaginal discharge, delayed periods, irregularities in menstrual
flow and duration of flow, sleeplessness, fatigue syndrome,
physical disability-that he used to see only in women during menopause. He said:
The question is whether these young mothers will be
pathologically blown apart when they lose their repro-ductive function. I see plenty of women with these menopausal difficulties which are activated, I'm sure, by the
emptiness of their lives. And by simply having spent the
last 28 years hanging on to the last child until there's
nothing left to hang on to. In contrast, women who've
had children, sexual relations, but who somehow have
much more whole-hearted personalities, without continually having to rationalize themselves as female by having
one more baby and polding on to it, have very few hot
flashes, insomnia, nervousness, jitteriness.

THE SEX-SEEKERS

257

The ones with female troubles are the ones who have
denied their femininity, or are pathologically female. But
we see these symptoms now in more and more young
wives, in their 20's, young women who are fatally invested in their children, who have not developed resources other than their children--coming in with the
same impairments of the ovarian cycle, menstrual difficulties, characteristic of the menopause. A woman 22
years old, who's had three children, with symptoms more
frequently seen with menopause . . . I say to her, "the
only trouble with you is that you've had too many babies
too fast" and reserve to myself the opinion "your personality has not developed far enough."
At this same hospital, studies have been made of women
recovering from hysterectomy, women with menstrual
complaints, and women with difficult pregnancies. The
ones who suffered the most pain, nausea, vomiting, physical
and emotional distress, depression, apathy, anxiety, were
women "whose lives revolved almost exclusively around the
reproductive function and its gratification in motherhood.
A prototype of this attitude was expressed by one woman
who said, 'In order to be a woman, I have to be able to
have children.'''8 The ones who suffered least had "wellintegrated egos," had resources of the intellect and were
directed outward in their interests, even in the hospital,
rather than preoccupied with themselves and their sufferings.
Obstetricians have seen this too. One told me:
It's a funny thing. The women who have the backaches, the bleeding, the difficult pregnancy and delivery,
are the ones who think their whole purpose in life is to
have babies. Women who have other interests than just
being reproductive machines have less trouble having
babies. Don't ask me to explain it. I'm no psychiatrist.
But we've all noticed it. .
Another gynecologist spoke of many patients in this era
of "femaleness-fulfiIled" to whom neither having babies nor
sexual intercourse brought "fulfillment." They were, in his
words:
Women who feel very unsure about their sex and need

158

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

to have children again and again to prove that they are
feminine; women who have the fourth or fifth child because they can't think of anything else to do; women
who are dominant and this is something else to dominate; and then I have hundreds of patients who are college girls who don't know what to do with themselves,
their mothers bring them in for diaphragms. Because
they are immature, going to bed means nothing-it is
.like taking medicine, no orgasm, nothing. For them getting married is an evasion.
The high incidence of cramps with menstruation, nausea
and vomiting during pregnancy, depression with childbirth,
and severe physiological and psychological distress at menopause have come to be accepted as a "normal" part of feminine biology.o Are these stigmata that mark the stages of
the female sexual cycle-menstruation, pregnancy, menopause-part of the fixed and eternal nature of women as
they are popularly assumed to be, or are they somehow
related to that unnecessary choice between "femininity"
and human growth, sex and self? When a woman is a "sex
creature," does she see unconsciously in each step of her
feminine sexual cycle a giving up, a kind of death, of her
very reason for existenee? These women who crowd the
clinics are personifications of the feminine mystique. The
lack of orgasm, the increasing "female troubles," the promiscuous and insatiable sex-seeking, the depression at the
moment of becoming a mother, the strange eagerness of
women to have their female sex organs removed by hysterectomies without medical cause-all these betray the
big lie of the mystique. Like the self-fulfilling prophecy of
death in Samarra, the feminine mystique, with its outcry
against loss of femininity, is making it increasingly difficult
for women to affirm their femininity, and for men to be
truly masculine, and for either to enjoy human sexual love.
The air of unreality that hovered over my interviews
with suburban housewife sex-seekers, the unreality that
pervades the sex-preoccupied novels, plays, and moviesas it pervades the ritualistic sex talk at suburban partiesI suddenly saw for what it was, on an island ostensibly far
removed from suburbia, where sex-seeking is omnipresent,
in pure phantasy. During the week, this island is an exaggeration of a suburb, for it is utterly removed from outside
stimuli, from the world of work and politics; the men do

THE SEX·SEEKERS

259

not even come home at night. The women who were spending the summer there were extremely attractive young
housewives. They had married early; they lived through
their husbands and children; they had no interest in the
world outside the home. Here on this island, unlike the suburb, these women had no way to make committees or
housework expand to fill the time available. But they found
a new diversion that killed two birds with one stone, a
diversion that gave them a spurious sense of sexual status,
but relieved them of the frightening necessity to prove it.
On this island, there was a colony of "boys" right out of
the world of Tennessee Williams. During the week when
their husbands were working in the city, the young housewives had "wild" orgies, all-night parties, with these sexless
boys. In a sort of humorous puzzlement, a husband who
took the boat over unexpectedly one midweek to console
his bored and lonely wife, speculated: "Why do they do it?
Maybe it has something to do with this place being a matriarchy."
Perhaps, too, it had something to do with boredomthere just was not anything else to do. But it looked like
sex; that's what made it so exciting, even though there was,
of course, no sexual contact. Perhaps, these housewives and
their boyfriends recognized themselves in each other. For
like the caII girl in Truman Capote's Breakfast at TitJany's
who spends the sexless night with the passive homosexual,
they were equally childlike in their retreat from life. And
in each other, they sought the same non-sexual reassurance.
But in the suburbs where most hours of the day there are
virtuaIIy no men at all-to give even the appearance of sex
-women who have no identity other than sex creatures
must ultimately seek their reassurance through the possession of "things." One suddenly sees why manipulators cater
to sexual hunger in their attempt to sell products which are
not even remotely sexual. As long as woman's needs for
achievement and identity can be channeled into this search
for sexual status, she is easy prey for any product which
presumably promises her that status-a status that cannot
be achieved by effort or achievement of her own. And since
that endless search for status as a desirable sexual object
is seldom satisfied in reality for most American housewives
(who at best can only try to look like Elizabeth Taylor),
it is very easily translated into a search for status through
the possession of objects.

260

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Thus women are aggressors in suburban status-seeking
and their search has the same falseness and unreality as
their sex-seeking. Status, after all, is what men seek and
acquire through their work in society. A woman's workhousework---cannot give her status; it has the lowliest status of almost any work in society. A woman must acquire
her status vicariously through her husband's work. The husband himself, and even the children, become symbols of
status, for when a woman defines herself as a housewife,
the house and the things in it are, in a sense, her identity;
she needs these external trappings to buttress her emptiness
of self, to make her feel like somebody. She becomes a
parasite, not only because the things she needs for status
come ultimately from her husband's work, but because she
must dominate, own him, for the lack of an identity of her
own. If her husband is unable to provide the things she
needs for status, he becomes an object of contempt, just
as she is contemptuous of him if he cannot fill her sexual
needs. Her very dissatisfaction with herself she feels as dissatisfaction with her husband and their sexual relations. As
a psychiatrist put it: "She demands too much satisfaction
from her marital relations. Her husband resents it and becomes unable to function sexually with her at all."
Could this be the reason for the rising tide of resentment
among the new young husbands at the girls whose only
ambition was to be their wives? The old hostility against
domineering "moms" and aggressive career girls may, in
the long run, pale before the new male hostility for the
girls whose active pursuit of the "home career" has resulted
in a new kind of domination and aggression. To be the tool,
the sex-instrument, the "man around the house," is evidently no dream-corne-true for a man.
In March, 1962, a reporter noted in Redbook a new
phenomenon on the suburban scene: that "young fathers
feel trapped":
Many husbands feel that their wives, firmly quoting
authorities on home management, child rearing and
married love, have set up a tightly scheduled, narrowly
conceived scheme of family living that leaves little room
for a husband's authority or point of view. (A husband
said "Since I've been married, I feel I've lost all my guts.
I don't feel like a man anymore. I'm still young, yet I
don't get much out of life. I don't want advice, but I

THE SEX·SEEKERS

261

sometimes feel like something is bursting loose inside.")
The husbands named their wives as their chief source of
frustration, superseding children, employers, finances,
relatives, community and friends. . • . The young father is no longer free to make his own mistakes or to
swing his own weight in a family crisis. His wife, having
just read Chapter VII, knows exactly what should be
done.
The article goes on to quote a social worker:
The modern wife's insistence on achieving sexual satisfaction for herself may pose a major problem for her
husband. A husband can be teased, flattered and cajoled
into performing as an expert lover. But if his wife scorns
and upbraids him as though he had proved unable to
carry a trunk up the attic stairs, she is in for trouble.
. . . It's alarming to note that five years after marriage,
a sizable number of American husbands have committed
adultery and a much larger proportion are seriously
tempted to do so. Often, infidelity is less a search for
pleasure than a means of self-assertion.
Four years ago, I interviewed a number of wives on a
certain pseudo-rural road in a fashionable suburb. They
had everything they wanted: lovely houses, a number of
children, attentive husbands. Today, on that same road,
there are a growing spate of dream-houses in which, for
various and sometimes unaccountable reasons, the wives
now live alone with the children, while the husbands-doctors, lawyers, account chiefs-have moved to the city. Divorce, in America, according to the sociologists, is in almost every instance sought by the husband, even if the wife
ostensibly gets it. lIl There are, of course, many reasons for
divorce, but chief among them seems to be the growing
aversion and hostility that men have for the feminine millstones hanging around their necks, a hostility. that is not
always directed at their wives, but at their mothers, the
women they work with-in fact, women in generaL
According to Kinsey, the majority of the American middleclass males' sexual outlets are not in relations with their
wives after the fifteenth year of marriage; at fifty~five, one
out of two American men is engaging in extramarital
sex.l l This male sex-seeking-the office romance, the casu-

262

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

al or intense affair, even the depersonalized sex-for-sex'ssake satirized in the recent movie The Apartment-is, as
often as not, motivated simply by the need to escape from
the devouring wife. Sometimes the man seeks the human
relationship that got lost when he became merely an appendage to his wife's aggressive "home career." Sometimes
his aversion to his wife finally makes him seek in sex an object totally divorced from any human relationship. Sometimes, in phantasy more often than in fact, he seeks a girlchild, a Lolita, as sexual object-to escape that grownup
wo_man who is devoting all her aggressive energies, as well
as her sexual energies, to living through him. There is no
doubt that male outrage against women-and inevitably,
against sex-has increased enormously in the era of the
feminine mystique. 12 As a man wrote in a letter to the Village Voice, New York's Greenwich Village newspaper, in
February, 1962: "It isn't a problem anymore of whether
White is too good to marry Black, or vice versa, but
whether women are good enough to marry men, since
women are on the way out."
The public symbol of this male hostility is the retreat of
American playwrights and novelists from the problems of
the world to an obsession with images of the predatory female, the passive martyred male hero (in homo- or heterosexual clothes), the promiscuous childlike heroine, and the
physical details of arrested sexual development. It is a special world, but not so special that millions of men and
women, boys and girls cannot identify with it. Tennessee
Williams' "Suddenly Last Summer" is a flagrant example of
this world.
The aging homosexual hero from an old Southern family, haunted by the monstrous birds that devour baby sea
turtles, has wasted hiS' life in pursuit of his lost gol~­
en youth. He himself has been "eaten" by his seductively
feminine mother, just as, in the end, he is literally eaten by
a band of young boys. It is significant that the hero of this
play never appears; he is without a face, without a body.
The only undeniably "real" character is the man-eating
mother. She appears again and again in Williams' plays and
in the plays and novels of his contemporaries, along with
the homosexual sons, the nymphomaniacal daughters, and
the revengeful male Don Juans. All of these plays are an
agonized shout of obsessed love-hate against wom¢n. Significantly, a great many of these plays are written by

THE SEX·SEEKERS

263

Southern writers, where the "femininity" which the mystique enshrines rem::ins most intact.
This male outrage is the result, surely, of an implacable
hatred for the parasitic women who keep their husbands
and sons from growing up, who keep them immersed at
that sickly level of sexual phantasy. For the fact is that
men, too, are now being drawn away from the large world
of reality into the stunted world of sexual phantasy in
which their daughters, wives, mothers have been forced to
look for "fu ;fillment." And, for men too, sex itself is taking
on the unreal character of phantasy-depersonalized, dissatisfying, and finally inhuman.
Is there, after all, a link between what is happening to
the women in America and increasingly overt male homosexuality? According to the feminine mystique, the "masculinization" of American women which was caused by
emancipation, education, equal rights, careers, is producing
a breed of increa~ingly "feminine" men. But is this the real
explanation? As a matter of fact, the Kinsey figures showed
no increase in homosexuality in the generations which saw
the emancipation of women. The Kinsey report revealed in
1948 that 37 per cent of American men had had at least
some homosexual experience, that 13 per cent were predominantly homosexual (for at least three years between
16 and 55), and 4 per cent exclusively homosexual-some
2,000,000 men. But there was "no evidence that the homosexual group involved more males or fewer males today
than it did among older generations."l:l
Whether or not there has been an increase in homosexuality in America, there has certainly been in recent years
an increase in its overt manifestations. 14 I do not think that
this is unrelated to the national embrace of the feminine
mystique. For the feminine mystique has glorified and perpetuated in the name of femininity a passive, chi:dl ike immaturity which is passed on from mothers to sons, as well
as to daughters. Male homosexuals-and the male Don
Juans, whose compulsion to test their potency is often
caused by unconscious homosexuality-are, no less than the
female sex-seekers, Peter Pans, forever childlike, afraid of
age, grasping at youth in their continual search for reassurance in some sexual magic.
The role of the mother in homosexuality was pinpointed
by Freud and the psychoanalysts. But the mother whose
son becomes homosexual is usually not the "emancipated"

264

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

woman who competes with men in the world, but the very
paradigm of the feminine mystique-a woman who lives
through her son, whose femininity is used in virtual seduction of her son, who attaches her son to her with such dependence that he can never mature to love a woman, nor
can he, often, cope as an adult with life on his own. The
love of men masks his forbidden excessive love for his
mother; his hatred and revulsion for all women is a reaction to the one woman who kept him from becoming a
man. The conditions of this excessive mother-son love are
complex. Freud wrote:
In all the cases examined we have ascertained that the
later inverts go through in their childhood a phase of
very intense but short-lived fixation on the woman (usually the mother) and after overcoming it, they identify
themselves with the woman and take themselves as the
sexual object; that is, proceeding on a narcissistic basis,
they look for young men resembling themselves in persons whom they wish to love as their mother loved
them. 15
Extrapolating from Freud's insights, one could say that
such an excess of love-hate is almost implicit in the relationship of mother and son-when her exclusive role as
wife and mother, her relegation to the home, force her to
live through her son. Male homosexuality was and is far
more common than female homosexuality. The father is
not as often tempted or forced by society to live through or
seduce his daughter. Not many men become overt homosexuals, but a great many have suppressed enough of this
love-hate to feel not only a deep repugnance for homosexuality, but a general and sublimated revulsion for women.
Today, when not only career, but any serious commitment outside the home, are out of bounds for truly "feminine" housewife-mothers, the kind of mother-son devotion
which can produce latent or overt homosexuality has plenty
of room to expand to fill the time available. The boy
smothered by such parasitical mother-love is kept from
growing up, not only sexually, but in all ways. Homosexuals
often lack the maturity to finish school and make sustained
professional commitments. (Kinsey found homosexuality
most common among men tyho do not go beyond high
school, and least common among college graduates.) 16

THE SEX·SEEKERS

265

The shallow unreality, immaturity, promiscuity, lack of
lasting human satisfaction that characterize the homosexual's sex life usually characterize all his life and interests.
This lack of personal commitment in work, in education,
in life outside of sex, is hauntingly "feminine." Like the
daughters of the feminine mystique, the sons spend most of
their lives in sexual phantasy; the sad "gay" homosexuals
may well feel an affinity with the young housewife sexseekers.
But the homosexuality that is spreading like a murky
smog over the American scene is no less ominous than the
restless, immature sex-seeking of the young women who
are the aggressors in the early marriages that have become
the rule rather than the exception. Nor is it any less frightening than the passivity of the young males who acquiesce
to early marriage rather than face the world alone. These
victims of the feminine mystique start their search for the
solace of sex at an earlier and earlier age. In recent years,
I have interviewed a number of sexually promiscuous girls
from comfortable suburban families, including a numberand this number is growing 17--of girls who marry in their
early teens because they are pregnant. Talking to these
girls, and to the professional workers who are trying to help
them, one quickly sees that sex, for them, is not sex at all.
They have not even begun to experience a sexual response,
much less "fulfillment." They use sex-pseudo-sex-to
erase their lack of identity; it seldom matters who the boy
is; the girl almost literally does not "see" him when she has
as yet no sense of herself. Nor will she ever have a sense
of herself if she uses the easy rationalizations of the feminine mystique to evade in sex-seeking the efforts that lead
to identity.
Early sex, early marriage, has always been a characteristic of underdeveloped civilizations and, in America, of
rural and city slums. One of the most striking of Kinsey's
findings, however, was that a delay in sexual activity was
less a characteristic of socia-economic origin than of the
ultimate destination-as measured, for instance, by education. A boy from a slum background, who put himself
through college and became a scientist or judge, showed
the same postponement of sexual activity in adolescence as
others who later became scientists or judges, not as others
from the same slum background. Boys from the right side
of the tracks, however, who did not finish college or be-

266

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

come scientists or judges showed more of that earlier sexual activity that was characteristic of the slum,lH Whatever
this indicates about the relationship between sex and the
intellect, a certain postponement of sexual activity seemed
to accompany the growth in mental activity required and
resulting from higher education, and the achievement of
the professions of highest value to society.
Among the girls in the Kinsey survey, there even seemed
to be a relationship between the ultimate level of mental
or intellectual growth as measured by education, and sexual satisfaction. Girls who married in their teens-who, in
Kinsey's cases, usually stopped education with high school
-started having sexual intercourse five or six years earlier
than girls who continued their education through college
or into professional training. This earlier sexual activity did
not, however, usually lead to orgasm; these girls were still
experiencing less sexual fulfillment, in terms of orgasm,
five, ten and fifteen years after marriage than those who
had continued their education,19 As with the promiscuous
girls in the suburbs, early sexual preoccupation seemed to
indicate a weak core of self which even marriage did not
strengthen.
Is this the real reason for the kind of compulsive sexseeking seen today in promiscuity, early and late, heterosexual or homosexual? Is it a coincidence that the many
phenomena of depersonalized sex-sex without self, sex for
lack of self-are becoming so rampant in the era when
American women are told to live by sex alone? Is it a coincidence that their sons and daughters have selves so weak
that they resort at an increasingly early age to a dehumanized, faceless sex-seeking? Psychiatrists have explained
that the key problem in promiscuity is usually "low selfesteem," which often seems to stem from an excessive
mother-child attachment; the type of sex-seeking is relatively irrelevant. As Clara Thompson, speaking of homosexuality, says:
Overt homosexuality may express fear of the opposite
sex, fear of adult responsibility . . . it may represent a
flight from reality into absorption in bodily stimulation
very similar to the auto-erotic activities of the schizophrenic, or it may be a symptom of destructiveness of
oneself or others. . .. People who have a low selfesteem . . . have a tendency to cling to their own sex

THE SEX·SEEKERS

267

because it is less frightening. . .. However, the above
considerations do not invariably produce homosexuality,
for the fear of disapproval from the culture and the need
to conform often drive these very people into marriage.
The fact that one is married by no means proves that
one is a mature person. . . . The mother-child attachment is sometimes found to be the important part of
the picture. . . . Promiscuity is possibly more frequent
among homosexuals than heterosexuals, but its significance in the personality structure is Nery similar in the
two. In both, the chief interest is in genitals and body
stimulation. The person chosen to share the experience
is not important. The sexual activity is compulsive and
is the sole interest. 20
CompUlsive sexual activity, homosexual or heterosexual,
usually veils a lack of potency in other spheres of life. Contrary to the feminine mystique, sexual satisfaction is bot
necessarily a mark of fulfillment, in woman or man. According to Erich Fromm:
Often psychoanalysts see patients whose ability to love
and so be close to others is damaged and yet who function very well sexually and indeed make sexual satisfaction a substitute for love because their sexual potency is
their only power in which they have confidence. Their
inability to be productive in all other spheres of life and
the resulting unhappiness is counterbalanced and veiled
by their sexual activities. 21
There is a similar undertone to the sex-seeking in colleges, even though the potential ability to be "productive in
all other spheres of life" is high. A psychiatrist consultant
for Harvard-Radcliffe students recently pointed out that
college girls often seek "security" in these intense sexual
relationships because of their own feelings of inadequacy,
when, probably for the first time in their lives, they have
to work hard, face real competition, think actively instead
of passively-which is "not only a strange experience, but
almost akin to physical pain."
The significant facts are the lowered self-esteem and
the diminution in zest, energy, and capacity to function
in a creative way. The depression seems to be a kind of

268

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

declaration of dependence, of helplessness, and a muted
cry for help as well. And it occurs at some time and in
varying intensity in practically every girl during her career at college. 22
All this may simply represent "the first response of a
sensitive, naive adolescent to a new, frighteningly complicated and sophisticated environment," the psychiatrist said.
But if the adolescent is a girl, she evidently should not, like
the boy, be expectid to face the challenge, master the painful work, meet the competition. The psychiatrist considers
it "normal" that the girl seeks her "security" in "love,"
even though the boy himself may be "strikingly immature,
adolescent, and dependent"-"a slender reed, at least from
the point of view of the girl's needs." The feminine mystique hides the fact that this early sex-seeking, harmless
enough for the boy or girl who looks for no more than it
offers, cannot give these young women that "clearer image
of themselves"-the self-esteem they need and "the vigor
to lead satisfying and creat~ve lives." But the mystique does
not always hide from the boy the fact that the girl's dependence on him is not really sexual, and that it may stifle
his growth. Hence the boy's hostility-even as he helplessly
succumbs to the sexual invitation.
A Radcliffe student recently wrote a sensitive account of
a boy's growing bitterness at the girl who cannot study
without him-a bitterness not even stilled by the sex with
which they nightly evade study together.
She was bending down the corner of a page and he
wanted to tell her to stop; the little mechanical action
irritated him out of all proportion, and he wondered if
he was so tense because they hadn't made love for four
days . . . I bet she needs it now, he thought, that's why
she's so quivery, close to tears, and maybe that's why I
loused up the exam. But he knew it was not an excuse;
he felt his resentment heating as he wondered why he
had not really reviewed . . . . The clock would never let
him forget the ~ mollnt of time he was wasting . . . he
slammed his books closed and began to stack them together. Eleanor looked up and he saw the terror in her
eyes . . .
"Look, I'm going to walk you back now," he said
• • . "I've got to get something done tonight" . . . He

THE SEX-SEEKERS

269

remembered that he had a long walk back, but as he
bent hurriedly to kiss her she slipped her arms around
him and he had to pull back hard in order to get away_
She let go at last, and no longer smiling, she whispered: "Hal, don't go." He hesitated. "Please, don't go,
please . . . " She strained up to kiss him and when she
opened her mouth he felt tricked, for if he put his tongue
between her lips, he would not be able to leave. He
kissed her, beginning half-consciously to forget that he
should go . . . he pulled her against him, hearing her
moan with pain and excitation. Then he drew back and
said, his voice already labored: "Isn't there anywhere we
can go?" . . . She was looking around eagerly and
hopefully and he wondered again, how much of her desire was passion and how much grasping: girls used sex
to get a hold on you, he knew-it was so easy for them
to pretend to be excited. 23
These are, of course, the first of the children who grew
up under the feminine mystique, these youngsters who use
sex as such a suspiciously easy solace when they face the
first hard hurdles in the race. Why is it so difficult for
these youngsters to endure discomfort, to make an effort,
to postpone present pleasure for future long-term goals?
Sex and early marriage are the easiest way out; playing
house at nineteen evades the responsibility of growing up
alone. And even if a father tried to get his son to be "masculine," to be independent, active, strong, both mother and
father encouraged their daughter in that passive, weak,
grasping dependence known as "femininity," expecting her,
of course, to find "security" in a boy, never expecting her
to live her own life.
And so the circle tightens. Sex without self, enshrined by
the feminine mystique, casts an ever-darkening shadow
over man's image of woman and woman's image of herself. It becomes harder for both son and daughter to escape, to find themselves in the world, to love another in
human intercourse. The million married before the age of
nineteen, in earlier and earlier travesty of sex-seeking, -betray an increased immaturity, emotional dependence, and
passivity on the part of the newest victims of the feminine
mystique. The shadow of sex without self may be dispelled
momentarily in a sunny suburban dream house. But what
will these childlike mothers and immature fathers do to

270

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

their children, in that phantasy paradise where the pursuit
of pleasure and things hides the loosening links to complex
modern reality? What kind of sons and daughters are raised
by girls who became mothers before they have ever faced
that reality, or sever their links to it by becoming mothers?
There are frightening implications for the future of our
nation in the parasitical softening that is being p~ed on to
the new generation of children as a result of our stubborn
embrace of the feminine mystique. The tragedy of children
acting out the sexual phantasies of their housewife-mothers
is only one sign of the progressive dehumanization that is
taking place. And in this "acting out" by the children, the
feminine mystique can finally be seen in all its sick and
dangerous obsolescence.

TWELVE

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION:
THE COMFORTABLE CONCENTRATION CAMP
THE VOICES NOW DEPLORING AMERICAN WOMEN'S RE-

treat to home reassure us that the pendulum has begun to
swing in the opposite direction. But has it? There are already signs that the daughters of the able and energetic
women who went back home to live in the housewife image find it more difficult than their mothers to move forward in the world. Over the past fifteen years a subtle and
devastating change seems to have taken place in the character of American children. Evidence of something similar
to the housewife's problem that has no name in a more
pathological form has been seen in her sons and daughters
by many clinicians, analysts, and social scientists. They have
noted, with increasing concern, a new and frightening passivity, softness, boredom in American children. The danger
sign is not the competitiveness engendered by the Little
League or the race to get into college, but a kind of infantilism that makes the children of the housewife-mothers
incapable of the effort, the endurance of pain and frustration, the discipline needed to compete on the baseball field,
or get into college. There is also a new vacant sleepwalking,
playing-a-part quality of youngsters who do what they are
supposed to do, what the other kids do, but do not seem to
feel alive or real in doing it.
In an eastern suburb in 1960, I heard a kigh-school
sophomore stop a psychiatrist who had just given an assembly talk and ask him for "the name of that pill that you
can take to hypnotize yourself so you'll wake up knowing
everything you need for the test without studying." That
same winter two college girls on a train to New York during the middle of midyear exam week told me they were
going to some parties to "clear their minds" instead of
studying for the exams. "Psychology has proved that when
you're really motivated, you learn instantly," one explained. "If the professor can't m?ke it interesting enough
so that you know it without working, that's his fault, not

272

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

yours." A bright boy who had dropped out of college told
me it was a waste of his time; "intuition" was what counted,
and they didn't teach that at college. He worked a few
weeks at a gas station, a month at a bookstore. Then he
stopped work and spent his time literally doing nothinggetting up, eating, going to bed, not even reading.
I saw this same vacant sleepwalking quality in a thirteenyear-old girl I interviewed in a Westchester suburb in an
investigation of teenage sexual promiscuity. She was barely
passing in her school work even though she was intelligent;
she "couldn't apply herself," as the guidance counselor put
it. She seemed always bored, not interested, off in a daze.
She also seemed not quite awake, like a puppet with someone else pulling the strings, when every afternoon she got
into a car with a group of older boys who had all "dropped
out" of school in their search for "kicks."
The sense that these new kids are, for some reason, not
growing up "real" has been seen by many observers. A
Texas educator, who was troubled because college boys
were not really interested in the courses they were taking
as an automatic passport to the right job, discovered they
also were not really interested in anything they did outside
of school either. Mostly, they just "killed time." A questionnaire revealed that there was literally nothing these kids
felt strongly enough about to die for, as there was nothing
they actually did in which they felt really alive. Ideas, the
conceptual thought which is uniquely human, were completely absent from their minds or lives. l
A social critic, one or two perceptive psychoanalysts,
tried to pinpoint this change in the younger generation as
a basic change in the American character. Whether for better or worse, whether it was a question of sickness or
health, they saw that the human personality, recognizable
by a strong and stable core of self, was being replaced by a
vague, amorphous "other-directed personality."2 In the
1950's, David Riesman found no boy or girl with that
emerging sense of his own self which used to mark human
adolescence, "though I searched for autonomous youngsters
in several public schools and several private schools."3
At Sarah Lawrence College, where students had taken a
large responsibility for their own education and for the organization of their own affairs, it was discovered that the
new generation of students was helpless, apathetic, incapable of handling such freedom. If left to organize their own

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

273

activities, no aCtivities were organized; a curriculum geared
to the students' own interests no longer worked because the
students did not have strong interests of their own. Harold
Taylor, then president of Sarah Lawrence, described the
change as follows:
Whereas in earlier years it had been possible to count
on the strong motivation and initiative of students to
conduct their own affairs, to form new organizations, to
invent new projects either in social welfare, or in intellectual fields, it now became clear that for many students
the responsibility for self-government was often a burden to bear rather than a right to be maintained . . . .
Students who were given complete freedom to manage
their own lives and to make their own decisions often
did not wish to do so. . . . Students in college seem to
find it increasingly difficult to entertain themselves, having become accustomed to depend upon arranged entertainment in which their role is simply to participate in
the arrangements alreaqy made. . . . The students were
unable to plan anything for themselves which they found
interesting enough to engage in.'"
The educators, at first, blamed this on the caution and
conservatism of the McCarthy era, the helplessness engendered by the atom bomb; later, in the face of Soviet advances in the space race, the politicians and public opinion
blamed the general "softness" of the educators. But, whatever their own weaknesses, the best of the educators knew
only too well that they were dealing with a passivity which
the children brought with them to school, a frightening
"basic passivity which . . . makes heroic demands on
those who must daily cope with them in or out of school."5
The physical passivity of the younger generation showed it-self in a muscular deterioration, finally alarming the White
House. Their emotional passivity was visible in bearded,
undisciplined beatnikery-a singularly passionless and purposeless form of adolescent rebe11ion. Juvenile delinquency
ratios just as high as those in the city slums began to show
up in the pleasant bedroom suburbs among the children of
successful, educated, respected and self-respecting members of society. middle-class children who had all the "advantages," all the "opportunities." A movie called "I Was
a Teenage Frankenstein" may not have seemed funny to

274

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

parents in Westchester and Connecticut who were visited
by the vice squad in 1960 because their kids were taking
drugs at parties in each others' pine-paneled playrooms. Or
the Bergen County parents whose kids were arrested in
1962 for mass violation of the graves in a suburban cemetery; or the parents in a Long Island suburb whose daughters at thirteen were operating a virtual "call girl" service.
Behind the senseless vandalism, the riots in Florida at spring
vacation, the promiscuity, the rise in teenage venereal disease and illegitimate pregnancies, the alarming dropouts
from high school and college, was this new passivity. For
these bored, lazy, "gimme" kids, "kicks" was the only way
to kill the monotony of vacant time.
That this passivity was more than a question of boredom
-that it signaled a deterioration of the human character
-was felt by those who studied the behavior of the American GI's who were prisoners of war in Korea in the 1950's.
An Army doctor, Major Clarence Anderson, who was allowed to move freely among the prison camps to treat the
prisoners, observed:
On the march, in the temporary camps, and in the
permanent ones, the strong regularly took food from the
weak. There was no discipline to prevent it. Many men
were sick, and these men, instead of being helped and
nursed by the others, were ignored, or worse. Dysentery
was common, and it made some men too weak to walk.
On winter nights, helpless men with dysentery were
rolled outside the huts by their cOfnrades and left to die
in the cold. 6
Some thirty-eight per cent of the prisoners died, a higher
prisoner death rate than in any previous American war, including the Revolution. Most prisoners became inert, inacti¥e, withdrawing into little shells they had erected against
reality. They did nothing to get food, firewood, keep themselves clean, or communicate with each other. The Major
was struck by the fact that these new American GI's almost
universally "lacked the old Yankee resourcefulness," an
ability to cope with a new and primitive situation. He concluded: "This was partly-but only partly, I believe-the
result of the psychic shock of being captured. It was also,
I think, the result of some new failure in the childhood and
adolescent training of our young men-a new softness."

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

275

Discounting the Army's propaganda point, an educational
psychologist commented: "There was certainly something
terribly wrong with these young men; not softness, but
hardness, slickness, and brittleness. I would call it ego-failure-a collapse of identity. . . . Adolescent growth can
and should lead to a completely human adulthood, defined
as the development of a stable sense of self . . . "7
The Korean prisoners, in this sense, were models of a
new kind of American, evidently nurtured in ways "inimical to clarity and growth" at the hands of individuals themselves "insufficiently characterized" to develop "the kind of
character and mind that conceives itself too clearly to consent to its own betrayal."
The shocked recognition that this passive non-identity
was "something new in history" came, and only came, when
it began to show up in the boys. But the apathetic, dependent, infantile, purposeless being, who seems so shockingly
nonhuman when remarked as the emerging character of
the new American man, is strangely reminiscent of the familiar "feminine" personality as defined by the mystique.
Aren't the chief characteristics of femininity-which Freud
mistakenly related to sexual biology-passivity; a weak ego
or sense of self; a weak superego or human conscience;
renunciation of active aims, ambitions, interests of one's
own to live through others; incapacity for abstract thought;
retreat from activity directed outward to the world, in favor of activity directed inward or phantasy?
What does it mean, this emergence now in American
boys as well as girls, of a personality arrested at the level
of infantile phantasy and passivity? The boys and girls in
whom I saw it were children of mothers who lived within
the limits of the feminine mystique. They were fulfillmg
their roles as women in the accepted, normal way. Some
had more than normal ability. and some had more than
normal education, but they were alike in the intensity of
their preoccupation with their children, who seemed to be
their main and only interest.
One mother, who was terribly disturbed that her son
could not learn to read, told me that when he came home
with his first report card from kindergarten, she was as "excited as a kid myself, waiting for someone to ask me out on
a date Saturday night." She was convinced that the teachers
were wrong when they said he wandered around the room
in a dream, could not pay attention long enough to do the

276

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

reading-readiness test. Another mother said that she could
not bear it when her sons suffered any trouble or distress at
all. It was as if they were herself. She told me:
I used to let them tum over all the furniture and build
houses in the living room that would stay up for days, so
there was no place for me even to sit and read. I couldn't
bear to make them do what they didn't want to do, even
take medicine when they were sick. I couldn't bear for
them to be unhappy, or fight, or be angry at me. I
couldn't separate them from myself somehow. I was always understanding, patient. I felt guilty leaving them
even for an afternoon. I worried over every page of
their homework; I was always concentrating on being a
good mother. I was proud that Steve didn't get in fights
with other kids in the neighborhood. I didn't even realize
anything was wrong until he started doing so badly in
school, and having nightmares about death, and didn't
want to go to school because he was afraid of the other
boys.
Another woman said:
I thought I had to be there every afternoon when they
got home from school. I read all the books they were assigned so I could help them with their schoolwork. I
haven't been as happy and excited for years as the weeks
I was helping Mary get her clothes ready for college.
But I was so upset when she wouldn't take art. That had
been my dream, before I got married, of course. Maybe
it's better to live your own dreams.
I do not think it is a coincidence that the increasing passivity-and dreamlike unreality-of today's children has
become so widespread in the same years that the feminine
mystique encouraged the great majority of American
women-including the most able, and the growing numbers
of the educated-to give up their own dreams, and even
their own education, to live through their children. The
"absorption" of the child's personality by the middle-class
mother-already apparent to a perceptive sociologist in
the 1940's-has inevitably increased during these years.
Without serious interests outside the horne, and with house~

277

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

work routinized by appliances, women could devote themselves almost exclusively to the cult of the child from cradle
to kindergarten. Even when the children went off to school
their mothers could share their lives, vicariously and sometimes literally. To many, their relationship with their children became a love affair, or a kind of symbiosis.
"Symbiosis" is a biological term; it refers to the process
by which, to put it simply, two organisms live as one. With
human beings, when the fetus is in the womb, the mother's
blood supports its life ; the food she eats makes it grow, its
oxygen comes from the air she breathes, and she discharges
its wastes. There is a biological oneness in the beginning
between mother and child, a wonderful and intricate process. But this relationship ends with the severing of the umbilical cord and the birth of the baby into the world as a
separate human being.
At this point, child psychologists construe a psychological or emotional "symbiosis" between mother and child in
which mother love takes the place of the amniotic fluid
which perpetually bathed and fed the fetus in the womb.
This emotional symbiosis feeds the psyche of the child until
he is ready to be psychologically born, as it were. Thus the
psychological writers-like the literary and religious eulogists of mother-love before the psychological era-<iepict
a state in which mother and baby still retain a mystical
oneness; they are not really separate beings. "Symbiosis,"
in the hands of the psychological popUlarizers, strongly implied that the constant loving care of the mother was absolutely necessary for the child's growth, for an indeterminate number of years.
But in recent years the "symbiosis" concept has crept
with increasing frequency into the case histories of disturbed children. More and more of the new child pathologies seem to stem from that very symbiotic relationship
with the mother, which has somehow kept children from
becoming separate selves. These disturbed children seem to
be "acting out" the mother's unconscious wishes or conflicts
-infantile dreams she had not outgrown or given up, but
was still trying to gratify for herself in the person of her
child.
The term "acting out" is used in psychotherapy to describe the behavior of a patient which is not in accord with
the reality of a given situation, but is the expression of un-

---=

278

THE FEMrNlNE MYSTIQUE

conscious infantile wishes or phantasy. It sounds mystical
to say that the unconscious infantile wishes the disturbed
child is "acting out" are not his own but his mother's. But
therapists can trace the actual steps whereby the mother,
who is using the child to gratify her own infantile dreams,
unconsciously pushes him into the behavior which is destructive to his growth. The Westchester executive's wife
who had pushed her daughter at thirteen into sexual promiscuity had not only been grooming her in the development of her sexual charms-in a way that completely
ignored the child's own personality-but, even before her
breasts began to develop, had implanted, by warnings and
by a certain intensity of questioning, her expectation that
the child would act out in real life her mother's phantasies
of prostitution.
It has never been considered pathological for mothers or
fathers to act out their dreams through their children, except when the dream ignores and distorts the reality of the
child. Novels, as well as case histories, have been written
about the boy who became a bad businessman because that
was his father's dream for him, when he might have been
a good violinist; or the boy who ends up in the mental hospital to frustrate his mother's dream of him as a great violinist. If in recent years the process has begun to seem
pathological, it is because the mothers' dreams which the
children are acting out have become increasingly infantile.
These mothers have themselves become more infantile, and
because they are forced to seek more and more gratification through the child, they are incapable of finally separating themselves from the child. Thus, it would seem, it is the
child who supports life in the mother in that "symbiotic"
relationship, and the child is virtually destroyed in the process.
This destructive symbiosis is literally built into the feminine mystique. And the process is progressive. It begins in
one generation, and continues into the next, roughly as follows:

1. By permitting girls to evade tests of reality, and real
commitments, in school and the world, by the promise of
magical fulfillment through marriage, the feminine mystique arrests their development at an infantile level, short
of personal identity, with an inevitably weak core of self.

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

~

279

2. The greater her own infantilism, and the weaker her
core of self, the earlier the girl will seek "fulfillment" as a
wife and mother and the more exclusively will she live
through her husband and children. Thus, her links to the
world of reality, and her own sense of herself, will become
progressively weaker.
3. Since the human organism has an intrinsic urge to
grow, a woman who evades her own growth by clinging to
the childlike protection of the housewife role will-insofar
as that role does not permit her own growth-suffer increasingly severe pathology, both physiological and emotional. Her motherhood will be increasingly pathological,
both for her and for her children. The greater the infantilization of the mother, the less likely the child will be able
to achieve human selfhood in the real world. Mothers with
infantile selves will have even more infantile children, who
will retreat even earlier into phantasy from the tests of
reality.
4. The signs of this pathological retreat will be more apparent in boys, since even in childhood boys are expected
to commit themselves to tests of reality which the feminine
mystique permits the girls to evade in sexual phantasy. But
these very expectations ultimately make the boys grow further toward a strong self and make the girls the worst victims, as well as the "typhoid Marys" of the progressive dehumanization of their own children.
From psychiatrists and suburban clinicians, I learned
how this process works. One psychiatrist, Andras Angyal,
describes it, not necessarily in relation to women, as "neurotic evasion of growth." There are two key methods of
evading growth. One is "noncommitment": a man lives his
life-school, job, marriage-"going through the motions
without ever being wholeheartedly committed to any actions." He vaguely experiences himself as "playing a role."
On the surface, he may appear to be moving normally
through life, but what he is actually doing is "going through
the motions."
The other method of evading growth Angyal called the
method of "vicarious living." It consists in a systematic denial and repression of one's own personality, and an attempt to substitute some other personality, an "idealized
conception, a standard of absolute goodness by which one
tries to live, suppressing all those genuine impulses that are

280

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

incompatible with the exaggerated and unrealistic standard," or simply taking the personality that is "the popular
cliche of the time."

i-

The most frequent manifestation of vicarious living is
a particularly structured dependence on another person,
which is often mistaken for love. Such extremely intense
and tenacious attachments, however, lack all the essentials of genuine love--devotion, intuitive understanding,
and delight in the being of the other person in his own
right and in his own way. On the contrary, these attachments are extremely possessive and tend to deprive the
partner of a ."life of his own." . . . The other person is
needed not as someone to relate oneself to; he is needed
for filling out one's inner emptiness, one's nothingness.
This nothingness originally was only a phantasy, but with
the persistent self-repression it approaches the state of
being actual.
All these attempts at gaining a substitute personality
by vicarious living fail to free the person from a vague
feeling of emptiness. The repression of genuine, spontaneous impulses leaves the person with a painful emotional vacuousness, almost with a sense of nonexistence . . .8
"Noncommitment" and "vicarious living," Angyal concludes, "can be understood as attempted solutions of the
conflict between the impulse to grow and the fear of facing
new situations"-but, though they may temporarily lessen
the pressure, they do not actually resolve the problem;
"their result, even if not their intent, is always an evasion
of personal growth."
Noncommitment and vicarious living are, however, at
the very heart of our conventional definition of femininity.
This is the way the feminine mystique teaches girls to seek
"fulfillment as women"; this is the way most American
women live today. But jf the human organism has an innate
urge to grow, to expand and become all it can be, it is not
surprising that the bodies and the minds of healthy women
begin to rebel as they try to adjust to a role that does not
permit this growth. Their symptoms which so puzzle the
doctors and the analysts are a warning sign that they cannot forfeit their own existence, evade their own growth,
without a battle.

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

281

I have seen this battle being fought by women I interviewed and by women of my own community, and unfortunately, it is often a losing battle. One young girl, first
in high school and later in college, gave up all her serious
interests and ambitions in order to be "popular." Married
early, she played the role of the conventional housewife,
in much the same way as she played the part of a popular
college girl. I don't know at what point she lost track of
what was real and what was fa<;:ade, but when she became
a mother, she would sometimes lie <\own on the floor and
kick her feet in the kind of tantrum she was not able to
handle in her three-year-old daughter. At the age of thirtyeight, she slashed her wrists in attempted suicide.
Another extremely intelligent woman, who gave up a
challenging career as a cancer researcher to become a
housewife, suffered a severe depression just before her baby
was born. After she recovered she was so "close" to him
that she had to stay with him at nursery school every morning for four months, or else he went into a violent frenzy
of tears and tantrums. In first grade, he often vomited in
the morning when he had to leave her. His violence on the
playground approached danger to himself and others. When
a neighbor took away from him a baseball bat witli which
he was about to hit a child on the head, his mother objected violently to the "frustration" of her child. She found
it extremely difficult to discipline him herself.
Over a ten-year period, as she went correctly through all
the motions of motherhood in suburbia, except for this inability to deal firmly with her children, she seemed visibly
less and less alive, less and less sure of her own worth. The
day before she hung herself in the basement of her spotless
split-level house, she took her three children for a checkup
by the pediatrician, and made arrangements for her daughter's birthday party.
Few suburban housewives resort to suicide, and yet there
is other evidence that women pay a high emotional and
physical price for evading their own growth. They are not,
as we now know, the biologically weaker of the species. In
every age group, fewer women die than men. But in America, from the time when women assume their feminine sexual role as housewives, they no longer live with the zest,
the enjoyment, the sense of purpose that is characteristic
of true human health.
During the 1950's psychiatrists, analysts, and doctors in

282

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

all fields noted that the housewife's syndrome seemed to
become increasingly pathological. The mild undiagnosable
symptoms-bleeding blisters, malaise, nervousness, and
fatigue of young housewives-became heart attacks, bleeding ulcers, hypertension, bronchopneumonia; the nameless
emotional distress became a psychotic breakdown. Among
the new housewife-mothers, in certain sunlit suburbs, this
single decade saw a fantastic increase in "maternal psychoses," mild-to-suicidal depressions or hallucinations over
childbirth. According to medical records compiled by Dr.
Richard Gordon and his wife Katherine (psychiatrist and
social psychologist, respectively) in the suburbs of Bergen
County, N.J., during the 1950's, approximately one out of
three young mothers suffered depression or psychotic
breakdown over childbirth. This compared to previous
medical estimates of psychotic breakdown in one out of
400 pregnancies, and less severe depressions in one out of
80.
In Bergen County during 1953-57 one out of 10 of the
746 adult psychiatric patients were young wives who
broke down over childbirth. In fact, young housewives
(18 to 44) suffering not only childbirth depression, but
all psychiatric and psychosomatic disorders with increasing severity, became during the fifties by far the predominant group of adult psychiatric patients. The number of disturbed young wives was more than half again
as big as the number of young husbands, and three times
as big as any other group. (Other surveys of both private
and public patients in the suburbs have turned up similar
findings.) From the beginning to the end of the fifties,
the young housewives also increasingly displaced men as
the main sufferers of coronary attack, ulcers, hypertension and bronchial pneumonia. In the hospital serving
this suburban county, women now make up 40 per cent
of the ulcer patients. 9
I went to see the Gordons, who had attributed the increased pathologies of these new young housewives-not
found among women in comparable rural areas, or older
suburbs and cities-to the "mobility" of the new suburban
population. But the "mobile" husbands were not breaking
down as were their wives and their children. Previous studies of childbirth depression had indicated that successful

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

283

professional or career women sometimes suffered "roleconflict" when they became housewife-mothers. But these
new 'victims, whose rate of childbirth depression or breakdown was so much greater than all previous estimates, had
never wanted to be anything more than housewife-mothers;
that was all that was expected of them. The Gordons
pointed out that their findings do not indicate that the
young housewives are necessarily subjected to more stress
than their husbands; for some reason, the women simply
show an increased tendency to succumb to stress. Could
that mean that the role of housewife-mother was too much f
for them; or could it mean that it was not enough?
These women did not share the same childhood seeds of
neurosis; some, in fact, showed none. But a striking similarity that emerged in their case histories was the fact that
they had abandoned their education below the level of
their ability. The sufferers were the ones who quit high
school or college; more often than comparable women
their age, they had started college-and left, usually after a
year. 10 Many also had come from "the more restrictive
ethnic groups" (Italian or Jewish) or from small towns in
the South where "women were protected and kept dependent." Most had not pursued either education or job, nor
moved in the world on their own in any capacity. A few
who broke down had held relatively unskilled jobs, or had
the beginnings of interests which they gave up when they
became suburban housewife-mothers. But most had had no
ambition other than that of marrying an up-a'nd-coming
man; many were fulfilling not only their own dreams but
also the frustrated status dreams of their mothers, in marrying ambitious, capable men. As Dr. Gordon described
them to me: "They were not capable women. They had
never done anything. They couldn't even organize the committees which needed to be organized in these places. They
had never been required to apply themselves, learn how to
do a job and then do it. Many of them quit school. It's
easier to have a baby than get an A. They never learned to
take stresses, pain, hard work. As soon as the going was
tough, they broke down."
Perhaps because these girls were more passive, more dependent than other women, walled up in the suburbs, they
sometimes seemed to become as infantile as their children.
And their children showed a passivity and infantilism that
seemed pathological-very early in the sons. One finds in

284

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the suburban mental-health clinics today, the overwhelming majority of the child patients are boys, in dramatic and
otherwise inexplicable reversal of the fact that most of the
adult patients in all clinics and doctors' offices today are
women-that is, housewives. Putting aside the theoretical
terms of his profession a Boston analyst who has many
women patients told me:
It is true, there are too many more women patients
than men. Their complaints are varied, but if you look
underneath, you find this underlying feeling of emptiness. It is not inferiority. It is almost like nothingness.
The situation is that they are not pursuing any goals of
their own.

Another doctor, in a suburban mental-health clinic, told
me of the young mother of a sixteen-year-old girl who,
since their move to the suburb seven years ago, has been
completely preoccupied with her children except for a little "do good" work in the community. Despite this mother's
constant anxiety about her daughter ("I think about her all
day-she doesn't have any friends and will she get into
college?"), she forgot the day her daughter was to take her
college entrance exams.
Her anxiousness about her daughter and what she was
doing was her own anxiety about herself, and what she
wasn't doing. When these women suffer with the preoccupation of what they aren't doing with themselves, the
children actually get very little real contact with them.
I think of another child, 2 years old, with very severe
symptoms because he has almost no actual contact with
his mother. She is very much in the home, all day, every
day. I have to teach her to have even physical contact
with the child. But it won't be solved until the mother
faces her own need for self-fulfillment. Being available
to one's children has nothing to do with the amount of
time--being able to be there for each child in terms of
what he needs ,can happen in a split second. And a mother can be there all day, and not be there for the child,
because of her preoccupation with herself. So he holds
his breath in temper tantrums; he fights in anger; he refuses to let her leave him at nursery school; even at 9 a

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

285

boy still requires his mother to go to the bathroom with
him, lie down with him or he can't go to sleep. Or he
becomes withdrawn to the point of schizophrenia. And
she is frantically trying to answer the child's needs and
demands. But if she was really able to fulfill herself, she
would be able to be there for her child. She has to be
complete herself, and there herself, to help the child to
grow, and learn to handle reality, even to know what his
own real feelings are.
In another clinic, a therapist spoke of a mother who was
panicky because her child could not learn to read at school,
though his intelligence tested high. The mother had left college, thrown herself into the role of housewife, and had
lived for the time when her son would go to school, and
she would fulfill herself in his achievement. Until therapy
made the mother "separate" herself from the child, he had
no sense of himself as a separate being at all. He could,
would, do nothing, even in play, unless someone told him
to. He could not even learn to read, which took a self of
his own.
The strange thing was, the therapist said, like so many
other women of this era of the "feminine role," in her endeavor to be a "real woman," a good wife and mother,
"she was really playing a very masculine role. . . . She
was pushing everyone around-dominating the children's
lives, ruling the house with an iron hand, managing the carpentry, nagging her husband to do odd jobs he never finished, managing the finances, supervising the recreation and
the education-and her husband was just the man who ~id
the bills."
.
In a Westchester community whose school system is
world famous, it was recently discovered that graduates
with excellent high-school records did very poorly in college and did not make much of themselves afterwards. An
investigation revealed a simple psychological cause. All during high school, the mothers literally had been doing their
children's homework and term papers. They had been
cheating their sons and daughters out of their own mental
growth.
Another analyst illuminates how juvenile delinquency is
caused by the child's acting out of the mother's needs, when
the mother's growth has been stunted.

286

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Regularly the more important parent-usually the
mother, although the father is always in some way involved-has been seen unconsciously to encourage the
amoral or antisocial behavior of the child. The neurotic
needs of the parent . . . are vicariously gratified by the
behavior of the child. Such neurotic needs of the parent
exist either because of some current inability to satisfy
them in the world of adults, or because of the stunting
experiences in the parent's own childhood-or more
commonly, because of a combination of both of these
factors.ll
Those who have observed and tried to help young delinquents have seen this progressive dehumanization process in action, and have discovered that love is not enough
to counteract it. The symbiotic love or permissiveness
which has been the translation of mother love during the
years of the feminine mystique is not enough to create a
social conscience and strength of character in a child. For
this it takes a mature mother with a firm core of self,
whose own sexual, instinctual needs are integrated with social conscience. "Firmness bespeaks a parent who has
learned . . . how all of his major goals may be reached in
some creative course of action . . ."12
A therapist reported the case of a nine-year-old girl who
stole. She will outgrow it, said her protective mother-with
a "permissiveness born of her own need for vicarious satisfaction." At one point, the nine-year-old asked the therapist, "When is my mother going to do her own stealing?"
At its most extreme, this pattern of progressive dehumanization can be seen in the cases of schizophrenic children: "autistic" or "atypical" children, as they are sometimes called. I visited a famous clinic which has been
studying these children for almost twenty years. During this
period, cases of these children, arrested at a very primitive,
sub-infantile level, have seemed to some to be on the increase. The authorities differ as to the cause of this strange
condition, and whether it is actually on the increase or only seems to be because it is now more often diagnosed.
Until quite recently, most of these children were thought to
be mentally retarded. But the condition is being seen more
frequently now, in hospitals and clinics, by doctors and
psychiatrists. And it is not the same as the irreversible,

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

287

organic types of mental retardation. It can be treated, and
sometimes cured.
These children often identify themselves with things, inanimate objects--cars, radios, etc., or with animals-pigs,
dogs, cats. The crux of the problem seems to be that these
children have not organized or developed strong enough
selves to cope even with the child's reality; they cannot distinguish themselves as separate from the outside world;
they live on the level of things or of instinctual biological
impulse that has not been organized into a human framework at all. As for the causes, the authorities felt they
"must examine the personality of the mother, who is the
medium through which the primitive infant transforms himself into a socialized human being."13
At the clinic I visited (The James Jackson Putnam Children's Center in Boston) the workers were cautious about
drawing conclusions about these profoundly disturbed children. But one of the doctors said, a bit impatiently, about
the increasing stream of "missing egos, fragile egos, poorly
developed selves" that he has encountered-"It's just the
thing we've always known, if the parent has a fragile ego,
the child will."
Most of the mothers of the children who never developed a core of human self were "extremely immature individuals" themselves, though on the surface they "give the
impression of being well-adjusted." They were very dependent on their own mothers, fled this dependency into
early marriage, and "have struggled heroically to build and
maintain the image they have created of a fine woman,
wife and mother."
The need to be a mother, the hope and expectation
that through this experience she may become a real person, capable of true emotions, is so desperate that of itself it may create anxiety, ambivalence, fear of failure.
Because she is so barren of spontaneous manifestations
of maternal feelings, she studies vigilantly all the new
methods of upbringing and reads treatises about physical
and mental hygiene.1 4
Her omnipresent care of her child is based not on spontaneity but on following the "picture of what a good mother
should be," in the hope that "through identification with
the child, her own flesh and blood, she may experience

288

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

vicariously the joys of real living, of genuine feeling."
And thus, the child is reduced from "passive inertia" to
"screaming in the night" to non-humanness. "The passive
child is less of a threat because he does not make exaggerated demands on the mother, who feels constantly in danger of revealing that emotionally she has little or nothing to
offer, that she is a fraud." When she discovers that she
cannot really find her own fulfillment through the child:
• . . she fights desperately for control, no longer of herself perhaps, but of the child. The struggles over toilet
training and weaning are generally battles in which she
tries to redeem herself. The child becomes the real victim-victim of the mother's helplessness which, in turn,
creates an aggression in her that mounts to destruction.
The only way for the child to survive is to retreat, to
withdraw, not only from the dangerous mother, but from
the whole world as well. "16
And so he becomes a "thing," or an animal, or "a restless
wanderer in search of no one and no place, weaving about
the room, swaying back and forth, circling the walls as if
they were bars he would break through."
In this clinic, the doctors were often able to trace a similar pattern back several generations. The dehumanization
was indeed progressive.
In view of these clinical observations, we may assume
that the conflict we have discovered in two generations
may well have existed for generations before and will
continue in those to come, unless the pattern is interrupted by therapeutic intervention or the child rescued
by a masculine father-figure, a hope which our experience would not lead us to expect. 16
But neither therapy nor love was enough to help these
children, if the mother continued to live vicariously through
the child. I noticed this same pattern in many of the women I interviewed, women who dominated their daughters,
or bred them into passive dependence and conformity or
unconsciously pushed them into sexual activities. One of
the most tragic women I interviewed was the mother of
that "sleepwalking" thirteen-year-old girl. A wealthy executive's wife whose life was filled with all the trappings, she

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

289

lived the very image of suburban "togetherness," except
that it was only a shell. Her husband's real life was centered in his business; a life that he could not, or would
not, share with his wife. She had sought to recapture her
sense of life by unconsciously pushing her thirteen-year-old
daughter into promiscuity. She lived in her daughter's
pseudo-sex life, which for the girl was so devoid of actual
feeling that she became in it merely a "thing."
Quite a few therapists and counselors were trying to
"help" the mother and the father, on the premise, I suppose, that if the mother's sexual-emotional needs were
filled in her marriage by her husband, she would not need
to solve them through her daughter-and her daughter
could grow out of the "thinwess" to womanhood herself. It
was because the husband had so many problems of his own
and the prospects of the mother ever getting enough love
from him looked dim, that the counselors were trying to
get the mother to develop some real interests in her own
life.
But with other women I have encountered who have
evaded their own growth in vicarious living and lack of
personal purposes, not even the most loving of husbands
have managed to stop the progressive damage to their own
lives and the lives of their children. I have seen what happens when women unconsciously push their daughters into
too early sexuality, because the sexual adventure was the
only real adventure--or means of achieving status or identity-in their own lives. Today these daughters, who acted
out their mothers' dreams or frustrated ambitions in the
"normal" feminine way and hitched their wagons to the
rising stars of ambitious, able men, are, in too many cases,
as frustrated and unfulfilled as their mothers. They do
not all rush barefoot to the police station for fear they will
murder the husband and baby who, they think, trap them
in that house. All their sons do not become violent menaces
in the neighborhood and at school; all their daughters do
not act out their mothers' sexual phantasies and become
pregnant at fourteen. Nor do all such housewives begin
drinking at 11 A.M. to hide the clunking whir of the dishwasher, the washing machine, the dryer, that are finally the
only sounds of life in that empty house, as the children,
one by one, go off to school.
But in suburbs like Bergen County, the rate of "separations" increased a wild 100% during the 1950's, as the

290

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

able, ambitious men kept on growing in the city while their
wives evaded growth in vicarious living or noncommitment,
fulfilling their feminine role at home. As long as the children were home, as long as the husband was there, the
wives suffered increasingly severe illnesses, but recovered.
But in Bergen County, during this decade, there was a drastic increase in suicides of women over forty-five, and of
hospitalized women psychiatric patients whose children had
grown up and left home. 17 The housewives who had to
be hospitalized and who did not recover quickly were,
above all, those who had never developed their own abilities in work outside the home. 18
The massive breakdown that may take place as more
and more of these new youllj housewife-mothers who are
the products of the feminine mystique reach their forties is
still a matter of speculation. But the progressive infantilization of their sons and daughters, as it is mirrored in the
rash of early marriages, has become an alarming fact. In
March, 1962, at the national conference of the Child Study
Association, the new early marriages and parenthood,
which had formerly been considered an indication of "improved emotional maturity" in the younger generation, were
at last recognized as a sign of increasing "infantilization."
The millions of American youngsters who, in the 1960's,
were marrying before they were twenty, betrayed an immaturity and emotional dependence which seeks marriage
as a magic short-cut to adult status, a magic solution to
problems they cannot face themselves, professionals in the
child-and-family field agreed. These infantile brides and
grooms were diagnosed as the victims of this generation's
"sick, sad love affair with their own children."
Many girls will admit that they want to get married
because they do not want to work any longer. They harbor dreams of being taken care of for the rest of their
lives without worry, with just enough furnishing, to do
little housework, interesting downtown shopping trips,
happy children, and nice neighbors. The dream of a husband seems somehow less important but in the fantasies
of girls about marriage, it usually concerns a man who
has the strength of an indestructible, reliable, powerful
father, and the gentleness, givingness, and self-sacrificing
love of a good mother. Young men give as their reason
for wanting to marry very often the desire to have a

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

291

motherly woman in the house, and regular sex just for
the asking without trouble and bother. . . . In fact,
what is supposed to secure maturity and independence
is in reality a concealed hope to secure dependency, to
prolong the child-parent relationship with the privileges
of being a child, and with as little as possible of its liroitations. 19
And there were other ominous signs across the nation of
mounting uncontrollable violence among young parents and
their children trapped in that passive dependence. A psychiatrist reported that such wives were reacting to hostility
from their husbands by becoming even more dependent
and passive, until they sometimes became literally unable
to move, to take a step, by themselves. This did not make
their husbands treat them with more love, but more rage.
And what was happening to the rage the wives did not
dare to use against their husbands? Consider this recent
news item (Time, July 20, 1962) about the "BatteredChild Syndrome."
To many doctors, the incident is becoming distressingly familiar. A child, usually under three, is brought to
the office with mUltiple fractures--often including a
fractured skull. The parents express appropriate concern, report that the child fell out of bed, or tumbled
down the stairs, or was injured by a playmate. But x-rays
and experience lead the doctor to a different conclusion:
the child has been beaten by his parents.
Gathering documentation from 71 hospitals, a University
of Colorado team found 302 battered-child cases in a single year; 33 died, 85 suffered permanent brain damage. The
parents, who were driven "to kick and punch their children, twist their arms, beat tbem with hammers or the
buckle end of belts, burn them with cigarettes or electric
irons," were as likely to live in those suburban split-levels
as in tenements. The A.M.A. predicted tbat when statistics
on the battered-child syndrome are complete, "it is likely
that it will be found to be a more frequent cause of death
than such well-recognized and thoroughly studied diseases
as leukemia, cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy."
The "parent" with most opportunity to beat that battered child was, of course, the mother. As one young moth-

292

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

er of four said to the doctor, as she confessed to the wish
to kill herself:
There doesn't seem any reason for me to go on living.
I don't have anything to look forward to. Jim and I don't
even talk to each other any more except about the bills
and things that need to be fixed in the house. I know he
resents being so old and tied down when he's still young,
and he blames it on me because it was I that wanted us
to get married then. But the worst thing is, I feel so envious of my own children. I almost hate them, because
they have their lives ahead, and mine is over.
It mayor may not be a symbolic coincidence but the
same week the child-and-family profession recognized the
real significance of the early marriages, the New York
Times Book Review (Sunday, March 18, 1962) recorded a
new and unprecedented popularity among American adults
of books about "love" affairs between human beings and
animals. In half a century, there have not been as many
books about animals on the American best-seller lists as in
the last three years (1959-62). While animals have always dominated the literature for small children, with maturity human beings become more interested in other human beings. (It is only a symbol, but in the Rorschach test,
a preponderance of animal over human images is a sign of
infantilism). And so progressive dehumanization has carried the American mind in the last fifteen years from
youth worship to that "sick love affair" with our own children; from preoccupation with the physical details of sex,
divorced from a human framework, to a love affair between man and animal. Where will it end?
I think it will not end, as long as the feminine mystique
masks the emptiness of the housewife role, encouraging girls
to evade their own growth by vicarious living, by noncommitment. We have gone on too long blaming or pitying
the mothers who devour their children, who sow the seeds
of progressive dehumanization, because they have never
grown to full humanity themselves. If the mother is at fault,
why isn't it time to break the pattern by urging all these
Sleeping Beauties to grow up and live their own lives?
There never will be enough Prince Charmings, or enough
therapists to break that pattern now. It is society's job, and
finally that of each woman alone. For it is not the strength

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

293

of the mothers that is at fault but their weakness, their
passive childlike dependency and immaturity that is mistaken for "femininity." Our society forces boys, insofar as
it can, to grow up, to endure the pains of growth, to educate themselves to work, to move on. Why aren't girls
forced to grow up-'-to achieve somehow the core of self
that will end the unnecessary dilemma, the mistaken c,hoice
between femaleness and humanness that is implied in the
feminine mystique?
It is time to stop exhorting mothers to "love" their children more, and face the paradox between the mystique's
demand that women devote themselves completely to their
home and their children, and the fact that most of the
problems now being treated in child-guidance clinics are
solved only when the mothers are helped to develop autonomous interests of their own, and no longer need to fill
their emotional needs through their children. It is time to
stop exhorting women to be more "feminine" when it
breeds a passivity and dependence that depersonalizes sex
and imposes an impossible burden on their husbands, a
growing passivity in their sons.
H is not an exaggeration to call the stagnating state of
millions of American housewives a sickness, a disease in
the shape of a progressively weaker core of human self
that is being handed down to their sons and daughters at a
time when the dehumanizing aspects of modern mass culture make it necessary for men and women to have a strong
core of self, strong enough to retain human individuality
through the frightening, unpredictable pressures of our
changing environment. The strength of women is not the
cause, but the cure for this sickness. Only when women are
permitted to use their full strength, to grow to their full
capacities, can the feminine mystique be shattered and the
progressive dehumanization of their children be stopped.
And most women can no longer use their full strength, grow
to their fuJI human capacity, as housewives.
It is urgent to understand how the very condition of being a housewife can create a sense of emptiness, nonexistence, nothingness, in women. There are aspects of the
housewife role that make it almost impossible for a woman
of adult intelligence to retain a sense of human identity,
the firm core of self or "I" without which a human being,
man or woman, is not truly alive. For women of ability,
in America today, I am convinced there is something about

294

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the housewife state itself that is dangerous. In a sense that
is not as far-fetched as it sounds, the women who "adjust"
as housewives, who grow up wanting to be "just a housewife," are in as much danger as the million, who walked to
their own death in the concentration camps-and the millions more who refused to believe that the concentration
camps existed.
In fact, there is an uncanny, uncomfortable insight into
why a woman can so easily lose her sense of self as a housewife in certain psychological observations made of the behavior of prisoners in Nazi concentration camps. In these
settings, purposely contrived for the dehumanization of
man, the prisoners literally became . "walking corpses."
Those who "adjusted" to the conditions of the camps surrendered their human identity and went almost indifferently to their deaths. Strangely enough, the conditions
which destroyed the human identity of so many prisoners
were not the torture and the brutality, but conditions similar to those which destroy the identity of the American
housewife.
In the concentration camps the prisoners were forced to
adopt childlike behavior, forced to give up their individuality and merge themselves into an amorphous mass. Their
capacity for self-determination, their ability to predict the
future and to prepare for it, was systematically destroyed.
It was a gradual process which occurred in virtually imperceptible stages-but at the end, with the destruction of
adult self-respect, of an adult frame of reference, the dehumanizing process was complete. This was the process as
observed by Bruno Bettelheim, psychoanalyst and educational psychologist, when he was a prisoner at Dachau and
Buchenwald in 1939. 20
When they entered the concentration camp, prisoners
were almost traumatically cut off from their past adult interests. This in itself was a major blow to their identity
over and above their physical confinement. A few, though
only a few, were able to work privately in some way that
had interested them in the past. But to do this alone was
difficult; even to talk about these larger adult interests, or
to show some initiative in pursuing them, aroused the hostility of other prisoners. New prisoners tried to keep their
old interests alive, but "old prisoners seemed mainly concerned with the problem of how to live as well as possible
inside the camp."

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

295

To old prisoners, the world of the camp was the only
reality.21 They were reduced to childlike preoccupation
with food, elimination, the satisfaction of primitive bodily
needs; they had no privacy, and no stimulation from the
outside world. But, above all, they were forced to spend
their days in work which produced great fatigue-not because it was physically killing, but because it was monotonous, endless, required no mental concentration, gave no
hope of advancement or recognition, was sometimes senseless and was controlled by the needs of others or the tempo
of machines. It was work that did not emanate from the
prisoner's own personality; it permitted no real initiative,
no expression of the self, not even a real demarcation of
time.
And the more the prisoners gave up their adult human
identity, the more they were preoccupied with the fear that
they were losing their sexual potency, and the more preoccupied they became with the simplest animal needs. It
brought them comfort, at first, to surrender their individuality, and lose themselves in the anonymity of the massto feel that "everyone was in the same boat." But strangely
enough, under these conditions, real friendships did not
groW.!!2 Even conversation, which was the prisoners' favorite pastime and did much to make life bearable, soon
ceased to have any real meaning. 23 So rage mounted in
them. But the rage of the millions that could have knocked
down the barbed wire fences and the SS guns was turned
instead against themselves, and against the prisoners even
weaker t!lan they. Then they felt even more powerless than
they were, and saw the SS and the fences as even more
impregnable than they were.
It was said, finally, that not the SS but the prisoners
themselves became their own worst enemy. Because they
could not bear to see their situation as it really was-because they denied the very reality of their problem, and
finally "adjusted" to the camp itself as if it were the only
reality-they were caught in the prison of their own
minds. The guns of the SS were not powerful enough to
keep all those prisoners subdued. They were manipulated to
trap themselves; they imprisoned themselves by making the
concentration camp the whole world, by blinding themselves to the larger world of the past, their responsibility
for the present, and their possibilities for the future. The
ones who survived, who neither died nor were exterrni-

296

THI! FEMININE MYSTIQUE

nated, were the ones who retained in some essential degree the adult values and interests which had been the essence of their past identity.
All this seems terribly remote from the easy life of the
American suburban housewife. But is her house in reality a
comfortable concentration camp? Have not women who
live in the image of the feminine mystique trapped themselves within the narrow walls 0{ their homes? They have
learned to "adjust" to their biological role. They have become dependent, passive, childlike; they have given up their
adult frame of reference to live at the lower human level
of food and things. The work they do does not require adult
capabilities; it is endless, monotonous, unrewarding. American women are not, of course, being readied for mass extermination, but they are suffering a slow death of mind
and spirit. Just as with the prisoners in the concentration
camps, there are American women who have resisted that
death, who have managed to retain a core of self, who have
not lost touch with the outside world, who use their abilities to some creative purpose. They are women of spirit
and intelligence who have refused to "adjust" as housewives.
It has been said time and time again that education has
kept American women from "adjusting" to their role as
housewives. But if education, which serves human growth,
which distills what the human mind has discovered and
created in the past, and gives man the ability to create his
own future-if education has made more and more American women feel trapped, frustrated, guilty as housewives,
surely this should be seen as a clear signal that women have
outgrown the housewife role.
It is not possible to preserve one's identity by adjusting
for any length of time to a frame of reference that is in itself destructive to it. It is very hard indeed for a human
being to sustain such an "inner" split--conforming outwardly to one reality, while trying to maintain inwardly
the values it denies. The comfortable concentration camp
that American women have walked into, or have been
talked into by others, is just such a reality, a frame of reference that denies woman's adult human identity. By adjusting to it, a woman stunts her intelligence to become
childlike, turns away from individual identity to become an
anonymous biological robot in a docile mass. She becomes

PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION

297

less than human, preyed upon by outside pressures, and
herself preying upon her husband and children. And the
longer she conforms, the less she feels as if she really exists. She looks for her security in things, she hides the fear
of losing her human potency by testing her sexual potency,
she lives a vicarious life through mass daydreams or through
her husband and children. She does not want to be reminded of the outside world; she -becomes convinced there is
nothing she can do about her own life or the world that
would make a difference. But no matter how often she
tries to tell herself that this giving up of personal identity
is a necessary sacrifice for her children and husband, it
serves no real purpose. So the aggressive energy she should
be using in the world becomes instead the terrible anger
that she dare not turn against her husband, is ashamed of
turning against her children, and finally turns against herself, until she feels as if she does not exist And yet in the
comfortable concentration camp as in the real one, something very strong in a woman resists the death of herself.
Describing an unforgettable experience in a real concentration camp, Bettelheim tells of a group of naked prisoners-no longer human, merely docile robots-who were
lined up to enter the gas chamber. The SS commanding
officer, learning that one of the women prisoners had been
a dancer, ordered her to dance for him. She did, and as she
danced, she approached him, seized his gun and shot him
down. She was immediately shot to death, but Bettelheim
is moved to ask:
Isn't it probable that despite the grotesque setting in
which she danced, dancing made her once again a person. Dancing, she was singled out as an individual, asked
to perform in what had once been her chosen vocation.
No longer was she a number, a nameless depersonalized
prisoner, but the dancer she used to be. Transformed
however momentarily, she responded like her old self,
destroying the enemy bent on her destruction even if she
had to die in the process.
Despite the hundreds of thousands of living dead men
who moved quietly to their graves, this one example
shows that in an instant, the old personality can be regained, its destruction undone, once we decide on our
own that we wish to cease being units in a system. Ex-

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
298
ercising the lost freedom that not even the concentration
camp could take away-to decide how one wishes to
think and feel about the conditions of one's life-this
dancer threw off her real prison. This she could do because she was willing to risk her life to achieve autonomy once more. 24

The suburban house is not a German concentration
camp, nor are American housewives on their way to the
gas chamber. But they are in a trap, and to escape they
must, like the dancer, finally exercise their human freedom, and recapture their sense of self. They must refuse
to be nameless, depersonalized, manipulated, and live their
own lives again according to a self-chosen purpose. They
must begin to grow •

..

THIRTEEN
THE FORFEITED SELF
SCIENTISTS OF HUMAN BEHAVIOR HAVE BECOME IN-

creasingly interested in the basic human need to grow,
man's will to be all that is in him to be. Thinkers in many
fields-from Bergson to Kurt Goldstein, Heinz Hartmann, Allport, Rogers, lung, Adler, Rank, Horney, AngyaJ,
Fromm, May, Maslow, Bettelheim, Riesman, Tillich and
the existentialists-all postulate some positive growth tendency within the organism, which, from within, drives it
to fuller development, to self-realization. This "will to power," "self-assertion," "dominance," or "autonomy," as it is
variously called, does not imply aggression or competitive
striving in the usual sense; it is the individual affirming his
existence and his potentialities as a being in his own right;
it is "the courage to be an individual."! Moreover, many
of these thinkers have advanced a new concept of the psychologically healthy man-and of normality and pathology. Normality is considered to be the "highest excellence
of which we are capable." The premise is that man is happy, self-accepting, healthy, without guilt, only when he is
fulfilling himself and becoming what he can be.
In this new psychological thinking, which seeks to understand what makes men human, and defines neurosis in
terms of that which destroys man's capacity to fulfill his
own being, the significant tense is the future. It is not
enough for an individual to be loved and accepted by others, to be "adjusted" to his culture. He must take his existence seriously enough to make his own commitment to
life, and to the future; he forfeits his existence by failing to
fulfill his entire being.
For years, psychiatrists have tried to "cure" their patients' conflicts by fitting them to the culture. But adjustment to a culture which does not permit the realization of
one's entire being is not a cure at all, according to the new
psychological thinkers.

300

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Then the patient accepts a confined world without
conflict, for now his world is identical with the culture.
And since anxiety comes only with freedom, the patient
naturally gets over his anxiety: he is relieved from his
symptoms because he surrenders the possibilities which
caused his anxiety. . . . There is certainly a question
how far this gaining of release from conflict by giving up
being can proceed without generating in individuals and
groups a submerged despair, a resentment which will later burst out in self-destructiveness, for history proclaims
again and again that sooner or later man's need to be
free will OUt. 2
These thinkers may not know how accurately they are
describing the kind of adjustment that has been inflicted on
American housewives. What they are describing as unseen
self-destruction in man, is, I think, no less destructive in
women who adjust to the feminine mystique, who expect
to live through their husbands and children, who want only
to be loved and secure, to be accepted by others, who never make a commitment of their own to society or to the
future, who never realize their human potential. The adjusted, or cured ones who live without conflict or anxiety
in the confined world of home have forfeited their own
being; the others, the miserable, frustrated ones, still have
some hope. For the problem that has no name, from which
so many women in America suffer today, is caused by adjustment to an image that does not permit them to become
what they now can be. It is the growing despair of women
who have forfeited their own existence, although by so
doing they may also have evaded that lonely, frightened
feeling that always comes with freedom.
Anxiety occurs at the point where some emerging potentiality or possibility faces the individual, some possibility of fulfilling his existence; but this very possibility
involves the destroying of present security, which thereupon gives rise to the tendency to deny the new potentiality.a
The new thinking, which is by no means confined to
existentialists, would not analyze "away" a person's guilt
over refusing to accept the intellectual and spiritual possibilities of his existence. Not all feelings of human guilt are

THE FORFEITED SELF

301

unfounded; guilt over the murder of another is not to be
analyzed away, nor is guilt over the murder of oneself. As
was said of a man: "The patient was guilty because he had
locked up some essential potentialities in himself.".!
The failure to realize the full possibilities of their existence has not been studied as a pathology in women. For it
is considered normal feminine adjustment, in America and
in most countries of the world. But one could apply to
millions of women, adjusted to the housewife's role, the insights of neurologists and psychiatrists who have studied
male patients with portions of their brain shot away and
schizophrenics who have for other reasons forfeited their
ability to relate to the real world. Such patients are seen
now to have lost the unique mark of the human being: the
capacity to transcend the present and to act in the light of
the possible, the mysterious capacity to shape the future. 5
It is precisely this unique human capacity to transcend
the present, to live one's life by purposes ~Letching into
the future-to live not at the mercy of the world, but as a
builder and designer of that world-that is the distinction
between animal and human behavior, or between the human being and the machine. In his study of soldiers who
had sustained brain injuries, Dr. Kurt Goldstein found that
what they lost was no more nor less than the ability of abstract human thought: to think in terms of "the possible,"
to order the chaos of concrete detail with an idea, to move
according to a purpose. These men were tied to the immediate situation in which they found themselves; their sense
of time and space was drastically curtailed; they had lost
their human freedom.6
A similar dailyness shrinks the world of a depressed
schizophrenic, to whom "each day was a separate island
with no past and no future." When such a patient has a
terrifying delusion that his execution is imminent, it is "the
result, not the cause, of his own distorted attitude toward
the future."
There was no action or desire which, emanating from
the present, reached out to the future, spanning the dull,
similar days. As a result, each day kept art unusual independence; failing to be immersed in the perception of
any life continuity, each day life began anew, like a solitary island in a gray sea of passing time. . . . There
seemed to be no wish to gO' further; every day was an

302

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

exasperating monotony of the same words, the same
complaints, until one felt that this being had lost all sense
of necessary continuity. . . . His attention was shortlived and he seemed unable to go beyond the most banal
questions.1
Recent experimental work by various psychologists reveals that sheep can bind past and future into the present
for a span of about fifteen minutes, and dogs for half an
hour. But a human being can bring the past of thousands
of years ago into the present as guide to his personal actions, and can project himself in imagination into the future, not only for half an hour, but for weeks and years.
This capacity to "transcend the immediate boundaries of
time," to act and react, and see one's experience in the
dimensions of both past and future, is the unique characteristic of human existence.s The brain-injured soldiers
thus were doomed to the inhuman hell of eternal "dailyness."
The housewives who suffer the terror of the problem
that has no name are victims of this same deadly "dailyness." As one of them told me, "I can take the real problems; it's the endless boring days that make me desperate."
Housewives who live according to the feminine mystique
do not have a personal purpose stretching into the future.
But without such a purpose to evoke their full abilities, they
cannot grow to self-realization. Without such a purpose,
they lose the sense of who they are, for it is purpose which
gives the human pattern to one's days.9
American housewives have not had their brains shot
away, nor are they schizophrenic in the clinical sense. But
if this new thinking is right, and the fundamental human
drive is not the urge for pleasure or the satisfaction of biological needs, but the need to grow and to realize one's full
potential, their comfortable, empty, purposeless days are
indeed cause for a nameless terror. In the name of femininity, they have evaded the choices that would have given
them a personal purpose, a sense of their own being. For,
as the existentialists say, the values of human life never
come about automatically. "The human being can lose his
own being by his own choices, as a tree or stone cannot."lO
It is surely as true of women's whole human potential
what earlier psychological theorists have only deemed true
of her sexual potential-that if she is barred from realizing

THE FORFEITED SELF

303

her true nature, she will be sick. The frustration not only
of needs like sex, but of individual abilities could result in
neurosis. Her anxiety can be soothed by therapy, or tranquilized by pills or evaded temporarily by busywork. But
her unease, her desperation, is nonetheless a warning that
her human existence is in danger, even though she has found
fulfillment, according to the tenets of the feminine mystique, as a wife and mother.
Only recently have we come to accept the fact that there
is an evolutionary scale or hierarchy of needs in man (and
thus in woman), ranging from the needs usually called instincts because they are shared with animals, to needs that
come later in human development. These later needs, the
needs for knowledge, for self-realization, are as instinctive,
in a human sense, as the needs shared with other animals
of food, sex, survival. The clear emergence of the later
needs seems to rest upon prior satisfaction of the physiological needs. The man who is extremely and dangerously
hungry has no other interest but food. Capacities not useful
for the satisfying of hunger are pushed into the background.
"But what happens to man's desires when there is plenty
of food and his belly is chronically filled? At once, other
(and higher) needs emerge and these, rather than the physiological hungers, dominate the organism."ll
In a sense, this evolving hierarchy of needs moves further and further away from the physiological level which
depends on the material environment, and tends toward a
level relatively independent of the environment, more and
more self-determined. But a man can be fixated on a lower need level; higher needs can be confused or channeled
into the old avenues and may never emerge. The progress
leading finally to the highest human level is easily blocked
-blocked by deprivation of a lower need, as the need for
food or sex; blocked also by channeling all existence into
these lower needs and refusing to recognize that higher
needs exist.
In our culture, the development of women has been
blocked at the physiological level with, in many cases, no
need recognized higher than the need for love or sexual
satisfaction. Even the,need for self-respect, for self-esteem
and for the esteem of others-"the desire for strength, for
achievement, for adequacy, for mastery and competence,
for confidence in the face of the world, and for independence and freedom"-is not clearly recognized for wom-

304

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

en. But certainly the thwarting of the need for self-esteem,
which produces feelings of inferiority, of weakness, and of
helplessness in man, can have the same effect on woman.
Self-esteem in woman, as well as in man, can only be based
on real capacity, competence, and achievement; on deserved respect from others rather than unwarranted adulation. Despite the glorification of "Occupation: housewife,"
if that occupation does not demand, or permit, realization
of woman's full abilities, it cannot provide adequate selfesteem, much less pave the way to a higher level of selfrealization.
We are living through a period in which a great many
of the higher human needs are reduced to, or are seen as,
symbolic workings-out of the sexual need. A number of
advanced thinkers now seriously question such "explanations by reduction." While every kind of sexual symbolism
and emotional pathology can be found by those who explore, with this aim, the works and early life of a Shakespeare, a da Vinci, a Lincoln, an Einstein, a Freud, or a
Tolstoi, these "reductions" do not explain the work that
lived beyond the man, the unique creation that was his, and
not that of a man suffering a similar pathology. But the sexual symbol is easier to see than sex itself as a symbol. If
women's needs for identity, for self-esteem, for achievement, and finally for expression of her unique human individuality are not recognized by herself or others in our
culture, she is forced to seek identity and self-esteem in
the only channels open to her: the pursuit of sexual fulfillment, motherhood, and the possession of material things.
And, chained to these pursuits, she is stunted at a lower
level of living, blocked from the realization of her higher
human needs.
Of course, little is known about the pathology or the
dynamics of these higher human needs-the desire to know
and understand, the search for knowledge, truth, and wisdom, the urge to solve the cosmic mysteries-because they
are not important in the clinic in the medical tradition of
curing disease. Compared to the symptoms of the classical
neuroses, such as the ones Freud saw as emanating from
the repression of the sexual need, this kind of psychopathology would be pale, subtle, and easily overlooked--or
defined as normal.
But it is a fact, documented by history, if not in the
clinic or laboratory, that man has always searched for

THE FORFEITED SELF

305

knowledge and truth, even in the face of the greatest danger. Further, recent studies of psychologically healthy people have shown that this search, this concern with great
questions, is one of the defining characteristics of human
health. There is something less than fully human in those
who have never known a commitment to an idea, who have
never risked an exploration of the unknown, who have
never attempted the kind of creativity of which men and
women are potentially capable. As A. H. Maslow puts it:
Capacities clamor to be used, and cease their clamor
only when they are well used. That is, capacities are
also needs. Not only is it fun to use our capacities, but
it is also necessary. The unused capacity or organ can
become a disease center or else atrophy, thus diminishing the person.12
But women in America are not encouraged, or expected,
to use their full capacities. In the name of femininity, they
are encouraged to evade human growth.
Growth has not only rewards and pleasure, but also
many intrinsic pains and always will have. Each step forward is a step into the unfamiliar and is thought of as
possibly dangerous. It also frequently means giving up
something familiar and good and satisfying. It frequently
means a parting and a separation with consequent nostalgia, loneliness and mourning. It also often means giving up a simpler and easier and less effortful life in exchange for a more demanding, more difficult life.
Growth forward is in spite of these losses and therefore
requires courage, strength in the individual, as well as
protection, permission and encouragement from the environment, especially for the child. Is
What happens if the environment frowns on that courage and strength-sometimes virtually forbids, and seldom
actually encourages that growth in the child who is a girl?
What happens if human growth is considered antagonistic
to femininity, to fulfillment as a woman, to woman's sexuality? The feminine mystique implies a choice between
"being a woman" or risking the pains of human growth.
Thousands of women, reduced to biological living by their
environment, lulled into a false sense of anonymous secur-

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
306
ity in their comfortable concentration camps, have made
a wrong choice. The irony of their mistaken choice is this:
the mystique holds 011t "feminine fulfillment" as the prize
for being only a wife and mother. But it is no accident that
thousands of suburban housewives have not found that
prize. The simple truth would seem to be that women will
never know sexual fulfillment and the peak experience of
human love until they are allowed and encouraged to grow
to their full strength as human beings. For according to the
new psychological theorists, self-realization, far from pre, venting the highest sexual fulfillment, is inextricably linked
to it. And there is more than theoretical reason to believe
that this is as true for women as for men.
In the late thirties, Professor Maslow began to study the
relationship between sexuality and what he called "dominance feeling" or "self-esteem" or "ego level" in women130 women, of college education or of comparable inteIIi(gence, between twenty and twenty-eight, most of whom
were married, of Protestant middle-class city background. a He found, contrary to what one might expect
from the psychoanalytical theories and the conventional
images of femininity, that the more "dominant" the woman, the greater her enjoyment of sexuality-and the greater
her ability to "submit" in a psychological sense, to give herself freely in love, to have orgasm. It was not that these
women higher in "dominance" were more "highly sexed,"
but they were, above all, more completely themselves,
more free to be themselves-and this seemed inextricably
linked with a greater freedom to give themselves in love.
These women were not, in the usual sense, "feminine," but
they enjoyed sexual fulfillment to a much higher degree
than the conventionally feminine women in the same study.
I have never seen the implications of this research discussed in popular psychological literature about femininity
or women's sexuality. It was, perhaps, not noticed at the
time, even by the theorists, as a major landmark. But its
findings are thought-provoking for Americaa. women today, who lead their lives according to the dictates of the
feminine mystique. Remember that this study was done in
the late 1930's, before the mystique became all-powerful.
For these strong, spirited, educated women, evidently there
was no conflict between the driving force to be themselves
and to love. Here is the way Professor Maslow contrasted

THE FORFEITED SELF

307

these women with their more "feminine" sisters-in terms
of themselves, and in terms of their sexuality:
High dominance feeling involves good self-confidence,
self-assurance, high evaluation of the self, feelings of
general capability or superiority, and lack of shyness,
timidity, self-consciousness or embarrassment. Low dominance feeling involves lack of self-confidence, selfassurance and self-esteem; instead there are extensive
feelings of general and specific inferiority, shyness, timidity, fearfulness, self-consciousness. . . . The person
who describes herself as completely lacking in what she
may call "self-confidence in general" will describe herself as self-confident in her home, cooking, sewing or
being a mother . . . but almost always underestimates
to a greater or lesser degree her specific abilities and endowments; the high dominance person usually gauges her
abilities accurately and realistically.15
These high-dominance women were not "feminine" in
the conventional sense, partly because they felt free to
choose rather than be bound by convention, and partly because they were stronger as individuals than most women.
Such women prefer to be treated "Like a person, not
like a woman." They prefer to be independent, stand on
their own two feet, and generally do not care for concessions that imply they are inferior, weak or that they
need special attention and cannot take care of themselves. This is not to imply that they cannot behave conventionally. They do when it is necessary or desirable
for any reason, but they do not take the ordinary conventions seriously. A common phrase is "I can be nice
and sweet and clinging-vine as anyone else, but my
tongue is in my cheek." . . . Rules per se generally
mean nothing to these women. It is only when they approve of the rules and can see and approve of the purpose behind them that they will obey them. . . . they
are strong, purposeful and do live by rules, but these
rules are autonomous and personally arrived at. . . .
Low dominance women are very different. They . . .
usually do not dare to break rules, even when they (rarely) disapprove of them. • • . Their morality and ethics

308

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

are usually entirely conventional. That is, they do what
they have been taught to do by their parents, their teachers, or their religion. The dictum of authority is usually
not questioned openly, and they are more apt to approve
of the status quo in every field of life, religious, economic,
educational and politicaV6
Professor Maslow found that the higher the dominance,
or strength of self in a woman, the less she was selfcentered and the more her concern was directed outward
to other people and to problems of the world. On the other
hand, the main preoccupation of the more conventionally
feminine low-dominance women was themselves and their
own inferiorities. From a psychological point of view, a
high-dominance woman was more like a high-dominance
man than she was like a low-dominance woman. Thus Professor Maslow suggested that either you have to describe as
"masculine" both high-dominance men and women or drop
the terms "masculine" and "feminine" altogether because
they are so "misleading."
Our high dominance women feel more akin to men
than to women in tastes, attitudes, prejudices, aptitudes,
philosophy, and inner personality in general. . . . Many
of the qualities that are considered in our culture to be
"manly" are seen in them. in high degree, e.g., leadership, strength of character, strong social purpose, emancipation from trivialities, lack of fear, shyness, etc. They
do not ordinarily care to be housewives or cooks alone,
but wish to combine marriage with a career. . . . Their
salary may come to no more than the salary of a housekeeper, but they feel other work to be more important
than sewing, cooking, etc. 17
Above all, the high-dominance woman was more psychologically free-more autonomous. The low-dominance
woman was not free to be herself, she was other-directed.
The more her self-depreciation, self-distrust, the more likely she was to feel another's opinion more valid than her
own, and to wish she were more like someone else. Such
women "usually admire and respect others more than they
do themselves"; and along with this "tremendous respect
for authority," with idolization and imitation of others,

THE FORFEITED SELF

309

with the complete "voluntary subordination to others" and
the great respect for others, went "hatred, and resentment,
envy, jealousy, suspicion, distrust."
Where the high-dominance women were freely angry, the
low-dominance women did not "have 'nerve' enough to say
what they think and courage enough to show anger when it
is necessary." Thus, their "feminine" quietness was a concomitant of "shyness, inferiority feelings, and a general feeling that anything they could say would be stupid and would
be laughed at." Such a woman "does not want to be a leader except in her fantasies, for she is afraid of being in the
forefront, she is afraid of responsibility, and she feels that
she would be incompetent."
And again Professor Maslow found an evident link between strength of self and sexuality, the freedom to be oneself and the freedom to "submit." He found that the
women who were "timid, shy, modest, neat, tactful, quiet,
introverted, retiring, more feminine, more conventional,"
were not capable of enjoying the kind of sexual fulfillment
which was freely enjoyed by women high in dominance and
self-esteem.
It would seem as if every sexual impulse or desire that
has ever been spoken of may emerge freely and without
inhibition in these women. . . . Generally the sexual
act is apt to be taken not as a serious rite with fearful
aspects, and differing in fundamental quality from all
other acts, but as a game, as fun, as a higbly pleasurable
animal act.l8
Moreover, Maslow found that, even in dreams and fantasies, women of above-average dominance enjoyed sexuality, while in low-dominance women the sexual dreams are
always "of the romantic sort, or else are anxious, distorted,
symbolized and concealed."
Did the makers of the mystique overlook such strong
and sexually joyous women when they defined passivity
and renunciation of personal achievement and activity in
the world as the price of feminine sexual fulfillment? Perhaps Freud and his followers did not see such women in
their clinics when they created that image of passive femininity. Perhaps the strength of self which Maslow found in
the cases he studied was a new phenomenon in women.

31D

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

The mystique kept even the behavioral scientists from
exploring the relationship between sex and self in women
in the ensuing era. But, quite aside from questions of women, in recent years behavioral scientists have become increasingly uneasy about basing their image of human nature
on a study of its diseased or stunted specimens-patients
in the clinic. In this context, Professor Maslow later set
about to study people, dead and alive, who showed no evidence of neurosis, psychosis, or psychopathic personality;
people who, in his view, showed positive evidence of selfrealization, or "self-actualization," which he defined as
"the full use and exploitation of talents, capacities, potentialities. Such people seem to be fulfilling themselves and
to be doing the best that they are capable of doing. . . .
They are people who have developed or are developing to
the full stature of which they are capable."19
There are many things that emerged from this study
which bear directly on the problem of women in America
today. For one thing, among the public figures included in
his study, Professor Maslow was able to find only two
women who had actually fulfilled themselves-Eleanor
Roosevelt and Jane Addams. (The men included Lincoln,
Jefferson, Einstein, Freud, G. W. Carver, Debs, Schweitzer,
Kreisler, Goethe, Thoreau, William James, Spinoza, Whitman, Franklin Roosevelt, Beethoven.) Apart from public
and historical figures, he studied at close range a small
number of unnamed subjects who met his criteria-all in
their 50's and 60's-and he screened 3,000 college students,
finding only twenty who seemed to be 'developing in the
direction of self-actualization; here also, there were very
few women. As a matter of fact, his findings implied that
self-actualization, or the full realization of human potential, was hardly possible at all for women in our society.
Professor Maslow found in his study that self-actualizing
people invariably have a commitment, a sense of mission
in life that makes them live in a very large human world, a
frame of reference beyond privatism and preoccupation
with the petty details of daily life.
These individuals customarily have some mISSIon in
life, some task to fulfill, some problem outside themselves which enlists much of their energies. . . . In general, these tasks are nonpersonal or unselfish, concerned

THE fORfEITED SELF

311

rather with the good of mankind in general, or of a nation in general. . . . Ordinarily concerned with basic issues and eternal questions, such people live customarily
in the widest possible frame of reference. . . . They
work within a framework of values that are broad and
not petty, universal and not local, and in terms of a century rather than a moment. . . .20
Further, Professor Maslow saw that self-actualizing people, who live in a larger world, somehow thereby never
stale in their enjoyment of the day-to-day living, the trivi- •
alities which can become unbearably chafing to those for
whom they are the only world. They ". . . have the wonderful capacity to appreciate again and again, freshly and
naively, the basic goods of life with awe, pleasure, wonder,
and even ecstasy, however stale these experiences may
have become to others."21
He also reported "the very strong impression that the
sexual pleasures are found in their most intense and ecstatic perfection in self-actualizing people." It seemed as if fulfillment of personal capacity in this larger world opened
new vistas of sexual ecstasy. And yet sex, or even love,
was not the driving purpose in their lives.
In self-actualizing people, the orgasm is simultaneously
more important and less important than in average people. It is often a profound and almost mystical experience, and yet the absence of sexuality is more easily
tolerated by these people. . . . Loving at a higher need
level makes the lower needs and their frustrations and
satisfactions less important, less central, more easily neglected. But it also makes them more wholeheartedly enjoyed when gratified. . . . Food is simultaneously enjoyed and yet regarded as relatively unimportant in the
total scheme of life. . . . Sex can be wholeheartedly enjoyed, enjoyed far beyond the possibility of the average
person, even at the same time that it does not play a
central role in the philosophy of life. It is something· to
be enjoyed, something to be taken for granted, something
to build upon, something that is very basically important
like water or food, and that can be enjoyed as much as
these; but gratification should be taken for granted. 22
With such people, the sexual orgasm is not always a

312

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

"mystical experience"; it may also be taken rather lightly,
bringing "fun, merriment, elation, feeling of well-being, gaiety. . • . It is cheerful, humorous, and playful-and not
primarily a striving, it is basically an enjoyment and a delight." He also found, in contradiction both to the conventional view and to esoteric theorists of sex, that in selfactualizing people the quality of both love and sexual satisfaction improves with the age of the relationship. ("It is a
very common report from these individuals that sex is better than it used to be and seems to be improving all the
time.") For, as such a person, with the years, becomes
more and more himself, and truer to himself, he seems
also to have deeper and more profound relations with others, to be capable of more fusion, greater love, more perfect identification with others, more transcendence of the
boundaries of the self, without ever giving up his own individuality.
What we see is a fusion of great ability to love and at
the same time great respect for the other and great respect for oneself. . . . Throughout the most intense and
ecstatic love affairs, these people remain themselves and
remain ultimately masters of themselves as well, living
by their own standards, even though enjoying each other
intensely.23
In our society, love has customarily been defined, at
least for women, as a complete merging of egos and a loss
of separateness-"togetherness," a giving up of individuality
rather than a strengthening of it. But in the love of selfactualizing people, Maslow found that the individuality is
strengthened, that "the ego is in one sense merged with another, but yet in another sense remains separate and strong
as always. The two tendencies, to transcend individuality
and to sharpen and strengthen it, must be seen as partners
and not as contradictory."
He also found in the love of self-actualizing people the
tendency to more and more complete spontaneity, the
dropping of defenses, growing intimacy, honesty, and selfexpression. These people found it possible to be themselves,
to feel natural; they could be psychologically (as weII as
physicaIIy) naked and still feel loved and wanted and secure; they could let their faults, weaknesses, physical and

THE FORFEITED SELF

313

psychological shortcomings be freely seen. They did not
always have to put their best foot forward, to hide false
teeth, gray hairs, signs of age; they did not have to "work"
continually at their relationships; there was much less mystery and glamour, much less reserve and concealment and
secrecy. In such people, there did not seem to be hostility
between the sexes. In fact, he found that such people
"made no really sharp differentiation between the roles and
personalities of the two sexes."
That is, they did not assume that the femall< was passive and the male active, whether in sex or love or anything else. These people were all so certain of their maleness that they did not mind taking on some of the cultural aspects of the opposite sex role. It was especially
noteworthy that they could be both active and passive
lovers, and this was the clearest in the sexual act and in
physical lovemaking. Kissing and being kissed, being
above or below in the sexual act, taking the initiative,
being quiet and receiving love, teasing and being teasedthese were all found in both sexes. 24
And thus, while in the conventional and even in the sophisticated view, masculine and feminine love, active and
passive, seem to be at opposite poles, in self-actualizing
people "the dichotomies are resolved and the individual
becomes both active and passive, both selfish and unselfish, both masculine and feminine, both self-interested and
self-effacing. "
Love for self-actualizing people differed from the conventional definition of love in yet another way; it was not
motivated by need, to make up a deficiency in the self; it
was more purely "gift" love, a kind of "spontaneous admiration."25
Such disinterested admiration and love used to be considered a superhuman ability, not a natural human one. But
as Maslow says, "human beings at their nest, fully grown,
show many characteristics one thought, in an earlier era,
to be supernatural prerogatives."
And there, in the words "fully grown," is the clue to the
mystery of the problem that has no name. The transcendence of self, in sexual orgasm, as in creative experience,
can only be attained by one who is himself, or herself, com-

314

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

plete, by one who has realized his or her own identity. The
theorists know this is true for man, though they have never
thought through the implications for women. The suburban
doctors, gynecologists, obstetricians, child-guidance clinicians, pediatricians, marriage counselors, and ministers who
treat women's problems have all seen it, without putting a
name to it, or even reporting it as a phenomenon. What
they have seen confirms that for woman, as for man, the
need for self-fulfillment-autonomy, self-realization, independence, individuality, self-actualization-is as important
as the sexual need, with as serious consequences when it
is thwarted. Woman's sexual problems are, in this sense,
by-productll of the suppression of her basic need to grow
and fulfill her potentialities as a human being, potentialities
which the mystique of feminine fulfillment ignores.
Psychoanalysts have long suspected that woman's intelligence does not fully flower when she denies her sexual nature; but by the same token can her sexual nature fully
flower when she must deny her intelligence, her highest
human potential? All the words that have been written criticizing American women for castrating their husbands and
sons, for dominating their children, for their material
greediness, for their sexual frigidity or denial of femininity
may simply mask this one underlying fact: that woman, no
more than man, can live by sex alone; that her struggle for
identity, autonomy-that "personaIly productive orientation based on the human need for active participation in a
creative task"-is inextricably linked with her sexual fulfillment, as a condition of her maturity. In the attempt to
live by sex alone, in the image of the feminine mystique,
ultimately she must "castrate" the husband and sons who
can never give her enough satisfaction to make up for lack
of a self, and pass on to her daughters her own unspoken
disappointment, self-denigration, and discontent.
Professor Maslow told me that he thought self-actualization is only possible for women today in America if one
person can grow through another-that is, if the woman
can realize her own potential through her husband and children. "We do not know if this is possible or not," he said.
The new theorists of the self, who are men, have usually
evaded the question of self-realization for a woman. Bemused themselves by the feminine mystique, they assume
that there must be some strange "difference" which perrnits

THE FORFEITED SELF

315

a woman to find self-realization by living through her husband and children, while men must grow to theirs. It is still
very difficult, even for the most advanced psychological
theorist, to see woman as a separate self, a human being
who, in that respect, is no different in her need to grow
than is a man. Most of the conventional theories about
women, as well as the feminine mystique, are based on
this "difference." But the actual basis for this "difference"
is the fact that the possibility for true s~lf-realization has
not existed for women until now.
Many psychologists, including Freud, have made the mistake of assuming from observations of women who did not
have the education and the freedom to play their full part
in the world, that it was woman's essential nature to be
passive, conformist, dependent, fearful, childlike--just as
Aristotle, basing his picture of human nature on his own
culture and particular period of time, made the mistake of
assuming that just because a man was a slave, this was his
essential nature and therefore "it was good for him to be a
slave."
Now that education, freedom, the right to work on the
great human frontiers-all the roads by which men have
realized themselves-are open to women, only the shadow
of the past enshrined in the mystique of feminine fulfillment keeps women from finding their road. The mystique
promises women sexual fulfillment through abdication of
self. But there is massive statistical evidence that the very
opening to American women of those roads to their own
identity in society brought a real and dramatic increase in
woman's capacity for sexual fulfillment: the orgasm. In
the years between the "emancipation" of women won by
the feminists and the sexual counterrevolution of the feminine mystique, American women enjoyed a decade-bydecade increase in sexual orgasm. And the women who enjoyed this the most fully were, above all, the women who
went furthest on the road to self-realization, women who
were educated for active participation in the world outside the home.
This evidence is found in two famous studies, generally
not cited for this purpose. The first of these, the Kinsey
report, was based on interviews with 5,940 women who
grew up in the various decades of the twentieth century
during which the emancipation of women was won, and be-

316

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

fore the era of the feminine mystique. Even according to
Kinsey's measure of sexual fulfillment, the orgasm (which
many psychologists, sociologists, and analysts have criticized
for its narrow, mechanistic, over-physiological emphasis,
and its disregard of basic psychological nuances), his study
shows a dramatic increase in sexual fulfillment during these
decades. The increase began with the generation born between 1900 and 1909, who were maturing and marrying in
the 1920's-the era of feminism, the winning of the vote
and the great emphasis on women's rights, independence,
careers, and equality with men, including the right to sexual
fulfillment. The increase in wives reaching orgasm and the
decrease in frigid women continued in each succeeding generation down to the youngest generation in the Kinsey sample which was marrying in the 1940's.26
And the most "emancipated" women, women educated
beyond college for professional careers, showed a far greater capacity for complete sexual enjoyment, full orgasm,
than the rest. Contrary to the feminine mystique, the Kinsey figures showed that the more educated the woman, the
more likely she was to enjoy full sexual orgasm more often,
and the less likely to be frigid. The greater sexual enjoyment of women who had completed college, compared to
those who had not gone beyond grade school or high school,
and the even greater sexual enjoyment of women who had
gone beyond college into higher professional training showed
up from the first year of marriage, and continued to show
up in the fifth, tenth, and fifteenth years of marriage.
While Kinsey found only one American woman in ten who
had never experienced sexual orgasm, the majority of women he interviewed did not experience it completely, all or
almost all of the time--except for those women who were
educated beyond college. The Kinsey figures also showed
that women who married before twenty were least likely to
experience sexual orgasm, and were likely to enjoy it less
frequently in or out of marriage, though they started sexual intercourse five or six years earlier than women who
finished college or graduate school.
While the Kinsey data showed that over the years "a distinctly higher proportion of the better educated females, in
contrast to the grade school and high school females, had
actually reached orgasm in a higher percentage of their
marital coitus," the increased enjoyment of sex did not, for

THE FORFEITED SELF

317

the most part, mean an increased incidence of it, in the
woman's life. On the whole, there was a slight trend in the
opposite direction. And that increase in extramarital sex
was less marked with professionally trained women. 27
Perhaps something about the supposedly "unfeminine"
strength, or self-realization achieved by women educated
for professional careers enabled them to enjoy greater sexual fulfillment in their marriages than other women-as
measured by the orgasm-and thus less likely to seek it
outside of marriage. Or perhaps they simply had less need
to seek status, achievement, or identity in sex. The relationship between woman's sexual fulfillment and self-realization indicated by Kinsey's findings is underlined by the
fact that, as many critics have pointed out, Kinsey's sample
was over-representative of professional women, college
graduates, women with unusually high "dominance" or
strength of self. Kinsey's sample underrepresented the "typical" American housewife who devotes her life to husband,
home and children; it underrepresented women with little
education; because of its use of volunteers, it underrepresented the kind of passive, submissive, conformist women
whom Maslow found to be incapable of sexual enjoyment. 28 The increase in sexual fulfillment and decrease in
frigidity which Kinsey found during the decades after women's emancipation may not have been felt by the "average"
American housewife as much as by this minority of women
who directly experienced emancipation through education
and participation in the professions. Nevertheless, the decrease in frigidity was so dramatic in that large, if unrepresentative, sample of nearly 6,000 women, that even Kinsey's
critics found it significant.
It was hardly an accident that this increase in woman's
sexual fulfillment accompanied her progress to equal participation in the rights, education, work, and decisions of
American society. The coincidental sexual emancipatton of
American men-the lifting of the veil of contempt and degradation from sexual intercourse-was surely related to the
American male's new regard for the American woman as
an equal, a person like himself, and not just a sexual object.
Evidently, the further women progressed from that state,
the more sex became an act of human intercourse rather
than a dirty joke to men; and the more women were able

318

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

to love men, rather than submit, in passive distaste, to their
sexual desire. In fact, the feminine mystique itself-with its
acknowledgement of woman as subject and not just object
of the sexual act, and its assumption that her active, willing
participation was essential to man's pleasure-<:ould not
have come without the emancipation of women to human
equality. As the early feminists foresaw, women's rights
did indeed promote greater sexual ful1illment, for men and
women.
Other studies also showed that education and independence increased the American woman's ability to enjoy a
sexual relationship with a man, and thus to affirm more
fully her own sexual nature as a woman. Repeated reports,
before and after Kinsey, showed college-educated women
to have a much lower than average divorce rate. More specifically, a massive and famous sociological study by Ernest W. Burgess and Leonard S. Cottrell indicated that
women's chances of happiness in marriage increased as
their career preparation increased-with teachers, professional nurses, women doctors, and lawyers showing fewer
unhappy marriages than any other group of women. These
women were more likely to enjoy happiness in marriage
than women who held skilled office positions, who in turn,
had happier marriages than women who had not worked
before marriage, or who had no vocational ambition, or
who worked at a job that was not in accordance with their
own ambitions, or whose only work training or experience
was domestic or unskilled. In fact, the higher the woman's
income at the time of her marriage, the more probable her
married happiness. As the sociologists put it:
Apparently in the case of wives, the traits that make
for success in the business world as measured by monthly
income are the traits that make for success in marriage.
The point, of course, may be made that income indirectly measures education since the amount of educational
training influences income.29
Among 526 couples, less than ten per cent showed "low"
marital adjustment where the wife had been employed seven or more years, had completed college or professional
training, and had not married before twenty-two. Where
wives had been educated beyond college, less than 5 per
cent of marriages scored "low" in happiness. The following

319

THE FORFEITED SELF

table shows the relationship between the marriage and the
educational achievement of the wife.
Marriage Adjustment Scores at Different Educational
Levels
Marital Adjustment Score
Wife's Educational Level

Very
low

Low High

Very
high

Graduate work
College
High School
Grades Only

0.0
9.2
14.4
33.3

4.6
18.9
16.3
25.9

56.5
48.9
37.1
14.8

-38.7
22.9
32.2
25.9

/

One might have predicted from such evidence a relatively poor chance of married happiness, or of sexual fulfillment, or even of orgasm, for the women whom the mystique encouraged to marry before twenty, to forgo higher
education, careers, independence, and equality with men in
favor of femininity. And, as a matter of fact, the youngest
group of wives studied by Kinsey-the generation born between 1920 and 1929 who met the feminine mystique
head-on in the 1940's when the race back home beganshowed, by the fifth year of marriage, a sharp reversal of
that trend toward increased sexual fulfillment in marriage
which had been manifest in every decade since women's
emancipation in the 1920's.
The percentage of women enjoying orgasm in all or
nearly all of their married sex life in the fifth year of
marriage had risen from 37% of women in the generation born before 1900 to 42% in the generations born
in the next two decades. The youngest group, whose fifth
year of marriage was in the late 1940's, enjoyed full orgasm in even less cases (36%) than women born before
1900. 30
Would a new Kinsey study find the young wives who
are products of the feminine mystique enjoying even less
sexual fulfillment than their more emancipated, more in-

320

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

dependent, more educated, more grownup-when-married
forebears? Only fourteen per cent of Kinsey's women had
married by twenty; a bare majority-fifty-three per cent
-had married by twenty-five, though most did marry.
This is quite a difference from the America of the 1960's,
when fifty per cent of women marry in their teens.
Recently, Helene Deutsch, the eminent psychoanalyst
who went even further than Freud in equating femininity
with masochistic passivity and, in warning women that
"outward-directed activity" and "masculinizing" inte!Iectuality might interfere with a fully feminine orgasm, threw a
psychoanalytic conference into an uproar by suggesting that
perhaps too much emphasis had been put on "the orgasm"
for women. In the 1960's, she was suddenly not so sure
that women had to have, or could have, a real orgasm.
Perhaps a more "diffuse" fulfillment was all that could be
expected. After all, she had women patients who were absolutely psychotic who seemed to have orgasms; but most
women she saw now did not seem to have them at all.
What did it mean? Could women, then, not experience
orgasm? Or had something happened, during this time when
so much emphasis has been placed on sexual fulfillment,
to keep women from experiencing orgasm? The experts did
not all agree. But in other contexts, not concerned with
women, analysts reported that passive people who "psychologically feel empty"-who fail to "develop adequate
egos," have "little sense of their own identity"--cannot submit to the experience of sexual orgasm for fear of their
own non-existence. 31 Fanned into an all-consuming sexual
search by the popUlarizers of Freudian "femininity," many
women had, in effect, renounced everything fQr the orgasm
that was supposed to be at the end of the rainbow. To say
the least, they directed quite a lot of their emotional energies and needs toward the sexual act. As somebody said
about a truly beautiful woman in America, her image has
been so overexposed in the ads, television, movies, that
when you see the real thing, you're disappointed. Without
even delving into the murky depths of the unconscious, one
might assume it was asking a lot of the beautiful orgasm,
not only to live up to its overadvertised claims, but to
constitute the equivalent of an A in sex, a salary raise, a
good review on opening night, promotion to senior editor
or associate professor, much less the basic "experience of

THE FORFEITED SELF

321

oneself," the sense of identity.82 As one psychotherapist
reported:
One of the major reasons, ironically, why so many
women are not achieving full-flowering sexuality today is
because they are so overdetermined to achieve it. They
are so ashamed if they do not reach the heights of expressive sensuality that they tragically sabotage their own
desires. That is to say, instead of focusing clearly on the
real problem at hand, these women are focusing on quite
a different problem, namely, "Oh, what an idiot and an
incompetent person I am for not being able to achieve
satisfaction without difficulty." Today's women are often obsessed with the notion of how, rather than what,
they are doing when they are having marital relations.
That is fatal.

If sex itself, as another psychoanalyst put it, is beginning
to have a "depressive" quality in America, it is perhaps
because too many Americans--especially the women sexseekers-are putting into the sexual search all their frustrated needs for self-realization. American women are suffering, quite simply, a massive sickness of sex without self. No
one has warned them that sex can never be a substitute for
personal identity; that sex itself cannot give identity to a
woman, any more than to a man; that there may be no
sexual fulfillment at all for the woman who seeks her self
in sex.
The question of how a person can most fully realize his
own capacities and thus achieve identity has become an
important concern of the philosophers and the social and
psychological thinkers of our time-and for good reason.
Thinkers of other times put forth the idea that people were,
to a great extent, defined by the work they did. The work
that a man had to do to eat, to stay alive, to meet the physical necessities of his environment, dictated his identity.
And in this sense, when work is seen merely as a means of
survival, human identity was dictated by biology.
But today the problem of human identity has changed.
For the work that defined man's place in society and his
sense of himself has also changed man's world. Work, and
the advance of knowledge, has lessened man's dependence

322

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

on his environment; his biology and the work he must do
for biological survival are no longer sufficient to define his
identity. This can be most clearly seen in our own abundant society; men no longer need to work all day to eat.
They have an unprecedented freedom to choose the kind
of work they will do; they also have an unprecedented
amount of time apart from the hours and days that must
actually be spent in making a living. And suddenly one realizes the significance of today's identity crisis-for women, and increasingly, for men. One sees the human significance of work-not merely as the means of biological survival, but as the giver of self and the transcender of self,
as the creator of human identity and human evolution.
For "self-realization" or "self-fulfillment" or "identity"
does not come from looking into a mirror in rapt contemplation of one's own image. Those who have most fully
realized themselves, in a sense that can be recognized by
the human mind even though it cannot be clearly defined,
have done so in the service of a human purpose larger than
themselves. Men from varying disciplines have used different words for this mysterious process from which comes
the sense of self. The religious mystics, the philosophers,
Marx, Freud-all had different names for it: man finds
himself by losing himself; man is defined by his relation to
the means of production; the ego, the self, grows through
understanding and mastering reality-through work and
love.
The identity crisis, which has been noted by Erik Erikson and others in recent years in the American man, seems
to occur for lack of, and be cured by finding, the work, or
cause, or purpose that evokes his own creativity.s3 Some
never find it, for it does not come from busy-work or
punching a time clock. It does not come from just making
a living, working by formula, finding a secure spot as an
organization man. The very argument, by Riesman and others, that man no longer finds identity in the work defined
as a paycheck job, assumes that identity for man comes
through creative work of his own that contributes to the
human community: the core of the self becomes aware,
becomes real, and grows through work that carries forward
human society.
Work, the shopworn staple of the economists, has become the new frontier of psychology. Psychiatrists have
long used "occupational therapy" with patients in mental

THE FORFEITED SELF

323

hospitals; they have recently discovered that to be of real
psychological value, it must be not just "therapy," but real
work, serving a real purpose in the community. And work
can now be seen as the key to the problem that has no
name. The identity crisis of American women began a century ago, as more and more of the work important to the
world, more and more of the work that used their human
abilities and through which they were able to find selfrealization, was taken from them.
Until, and even into, the last century, strong, capable
women were needed to pioneer our new land; with their
husbands, they ran the farms and plantations and Western
homesteads. These women were respected and self-respecting members of a society whose pioneering purpose centered in the hortJe. Strength and independence, responsibility and self-confidence, self-discipline and courage, freedom and equality were part of the American character for
both men and women, in all the first generations. The
women who came by steerage from Ireland, Italy, Russia,
and Poland worked beside their husbands in the sweatshops
and the laundries, learned the new language, and saved to
send their sons and daughters to college. Women were never quite as "feminine," or held in as much contempt, in
America as they were in Europe. American women seemed
to European travelers, long before our time, less passive,
childlike, and feminine than their own wives in France or
Germany or England. By an accident of history, American
women shared in the work of society longer, and grew with
the men. Grade- and high-school education for boys and
girls alike was almost always the rule; and in the West,
where women shared the pioneering work the longest, even
the universities were coeducational from the beginning.
The identity crisis for women did not begin in America
until the fire and strength and ability of the pioneer women
were no longer needed, no longer used, in the middle-class
homes of the Eastern and Midwestern cities, when the pioneering was done and men began to build the new society
in industries and professions outside the home. But the
daughters of the pioneer women had grown too used to
freedom and work to be content with leisure and passive
femininity.3f
It was not an American, but a South African woman,
Mrs. Olive S'rhreiner, who warned at the turn of the century that the quality and quantity of women's functions in

324

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the social universe were decreasing as fast as civilization
was advancing; that if women did not win back their right
to a full share of honored and useful work, woman's mind
and muscle would weaken in a parasitic state; her offspring,
male and female, would weaken progressively, and civilization itself would deteriorate. 35
The feminists saw clearly that education and the right to
participate in the more advanced work of society were
women's greatest needs. They fought for and won the rights
to new, fully human identity for women. But how very few
of their daughters and granddaughters have chosen to use
their education and their abilities for any large creative
purpose, for responsible work in society? How many of
them have been deceived, or have deceived themselves, into clinging to the outgrown, childlike femininity of "Occupation: housewife"?
It was not a minor matter, their mistaken choice. We
now know that the same range of potential ability exists for
women as for men. Women, as well as men, can only find
their identity in work that uses their full capacities. A
woman cannot find her identity through others-her husband, her .c hildren. She cannot find it in the dull routine
of housework. As thinkers of every age have said, it is only
when a human being faces squarely the fact that he can
forfeit his own life, that he becomes truly aware of himself, and begins tQ take his existence seriously. Sometimes
this awareness comes only at the moment of death. Some_ times it- comes from a more subtle facing of death: the
death of self in passive conformity, in meaningless work.
The feminine mystique prescribes just such a living death
for women. Faced with the slow death of self, the American woman must begin to take her life seriously.
"We measure ourselves by many standards," said the
great American psychologist William James, nearly a century ago. "Our strength and our intelligence, our wealth and
even our good luck, are things which warm our heart and
make us feel ourselves a match for life. But deeper than
all such things, and able to suffice unto itself without them,
is the sense of the amount of effort which we can put
forth."36
If women do not put forth, finally, that effort to become all that they have it in them to become, they will
forfeit their own humanity. A woman today who has no
goal, no purpose, no ambition patterning her days into the

THE FORFEITED SELF

325

future, making her stretch and grow beyond that small
score of years in which her body can fill its biological function, is committing a kind of suicide. For that future half
a century after the child-bearing years are over is a fact
that an American woman cannot deny. Nor can she deny
that as a housewife, the world is indeed rushing past her
door while she just sits and watches. The terror she feels is
real, if she has no place in that world.
The feminine mystique has succeeded in burying millions
of American women alive. There is no way for these women
to break out of their comfortable concentration camps except by fina\ty putting forth an effort-that human effort
which reaches beyond biology, beyond the narrow walls of
home, to help shape the future. Only by such a personal
commitment to the future can American women break out
of the housewife trap and truly find fulfillment as wives
and mothers-by fulfilling their own unique possibilities as
separate human beings.

F 0 U R TEE N

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN
"EASY ENOUGH TO SAY," THE WOMAN INSIDE THE

housewife's trap remarks, "but what can 1 do, alone in the
house, with the children yelling and the laundry to sort and
no grandmother to babysit?" It is easier to live through
someone else than to become complete yourself. The freedom to lead and plan your own life is frightening if you
have never faced it before. It is frightening when a woman
finally realizes that there is no answer to the question "who
am I" except the voice inside herself. She may spend years
on the analyst's couch, working out her "adjustment to the
feminine role," her blocks to "fulfillment as a wife and
mother." And still the voice inside her may say, "That's
not it." Even the best psychoanalyst can only give her the
courage to listen to her own voice. When society asks so
little of women, every woman has to listen to her own
inner voice to find her identity in this changing world. She
must create, out of her own needs and abilities, a new life
plan, fitting in the love and children and home that have
defined femininity in the past with the work toward a
greater purpose that shapes the future.
To face the problem is not to solve it. But once a woman faces it, as women are doing today all over America
without much help from the experts, once she asks herself
"What do I want to do?" she begins to find her own answers. Once she begins to see through the delusions of the
feminine mystique-and realizes that neither her husband
nor her children, nor the things in her house, nor sex, nor
being like all the other women, can give her a self-she
often finds the solution much easier than she anticipated.
Of the many women I talked to in the suburbs and cities,
some were just beginning to face the problem, others were
well on their way to solving it, and for still others it was no
longer a problem. In the stillness of an April afternoon with
all her children in school, a woman told me:

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

327

I put all my energies into the children, carting them
around, worrying about them, teaching them things. Suddenly, there was this terrible feeling of emptiness. All
that volunteer work I'd taken on-Scouts, PTA, the
League, just didn't seem worth doing all of a sudden. As
a girl, I wanted to be an actress. It was too late to go
back to that. I stayed in the house all day, cleaning things
I hadn't cleaned in years. I spent a lot of time just crying. My husband and I talked about its being an American woman's problem, how you give up a career. for the
children, and then you reach a point where you can't go
back. I felt so envious of the few women I know who
had a definite skill and kept working at it. My dream of
being an actress wasn't real-I didn't work at it. Did I
have to throw my whole self into the children? I've spent
my whole life just immersed in other people, and never
even knew what kind of a person I was myself. Now I
think even having another baby wouldn't solve that emptiness long. You can't go back-you have to go on. There
must be some real way I can go on myself.
This woman was just beginning her search for identity. Another woman had made it to the other side, and could look
back now and see the problem clearly. Her home was colorful, casual, but technically she was no longer "just a
housewife." She was paid for her work as a professional
painter. She told me that when she stopped conforming to
the conventional picture of femininity she finally began to
enjoy being a woman. She said:
I used to work so hard to maintain this beautiful picture of myself as a wife and mother. I had all of my
children by natural childbirth. I breastfed them all. I got
mad once at an older woman at a party when I said
childbirth is the most important thing in life, the basic
animal, and she said, "Don't you want to be more than
an animal?"
You do want something more, only you don't know
what it is. So you put even more into housekeeping. It's
not challenging enough, just ironing dresses for your little girls, so you go in for rufHy dresses that need more
ironing, and bake your own bread, and refuse to get a
dishwasher. You think if you make a big enough chal-

328

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

lenge out of it, then somehow it will be satisfying. And
still it wasn't.
I almost had an affair. I used to feel so discontented
with my husband. I used to feel outraged if he didn't
help with the housework. I insisted that he do dishes,
scrub floors, everything. We wouldn't quarrel, but you
can't deceive yourself sometimes in the middle of the
night.
I couldn't seem to control this feeling that I wanted
something more from life. So I went to a psychiatrist.
He kept trying to make me enjoy being feminine, but it
didn't help. And then I went to one who seemed to make
me find out who I was, and forget about this beautiful
feminine picture. I realized I was furious at myself, furious at my husband, because I'd left school.
I used to put the kids in the car and just drive because
I couldn't bear to be alone in the house. I kept wanting
to do something, but I was afraid to try. One day on a
back road I saw an artist painting, and it was like a voice
I couldn't control saying "Do you give lessons?"
I'd take care of the house and kids all day, and after
I finished the dishes at night, I'd paint. Then I took the
bedroom we were going to use for another baby-five
children was part of my beautiful picture-and used it
for a studio for myself. I remember one night working
and working and suddenly it was 2 A.M. and I was finished. I looked at the picture, and it was like finding
myself.
I can't think what I was trying to do with my life before, trying to fit some picture of an oldtime woman
pioneer. I don't have to prove I'm a woman by sewing
my own clothes. I am a woman, and I am myself, and I
buy clothes and love them. I'm not such a darned patient, loving, perfect mother anymore. I don't change the
kids' clothes top to bottom every day, and no more ruffles. But I seem to have more time to enjoy them. I don't
spend much time on housework now, but it's done before my husband gets home. We bought a dishwasher.
The longer it takes to wash dishes, the less time you
have for anything else. It's not creative, doing the same
thing over and over. Why should a woman feel guilty at
getting rid of this repetitive work. There's no virtue in
dishwashing, scrubbing floors. Dacron, dishwashers, drip
dry-this is fine, this is the direction physical life should

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

329

take. This is our time, our only time on earth. We can't
keep throwing it away. My time is all I've got, and this is
what I want to do with it.
I don't need to make such a production of my marriage now because it's real. Somehow, once I began to
have the sense of myself, I became aware of my husband. Before, it was like he was part of me, not a separate human being. I guess it wasn't till I stopped trying
to be feminine that I began to enjoy being a woman.
And then, there were others, teetering back and forth,
aware of the problem but not yet quite sure what to do
about it. The chairman of a suburban fund-raising committee said:
I envy Jean who stays at home and does the work she
wants to do. I haven't opened my easel in two months.
I keep getting so involved in committees I don't care
about. It's the thing to do to get in with the crowd here.
But it doesn't make me feel quiet inside, the way I feel
when I paint. An artist in the city told me, "You should
take yourself more seriously. You can be an artist and a
housewife and a mother-all three." I guess the only
thing that stops me is that it's hard work.
A young Ohio woman told me:
Lately, I've felt this need. I felt we simply had to have
a bigger house, put on an addition, or move to a better
neighborhood. I went on a frantic round of entertaining
but that was like living for the interruptions of your life.
My husband thinks that being a good mother is the
most important career there is. I think it's even more
important than a career. But I don't think most women
are all mother. I enjoy my kids, but I don't like spending
all my time with them. I'm just not their age. I could
make housework take up more of my time. But the
floors don't need vacuuming more than twice a week.
My mother swept them every day.
I always wanted to play the violin. When I went to
college, girls who took music seriously were peCUliar.
Suddenly, it was as if some voice inside me said, now is
the time, you'll never get another chance. I felt embarrassed, practicing at forty. It exhausts me and hurts my

330

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

shoulder, but it makes me feel at one with something
larger than myself. The universe suddenly becomes real,
and you're part of it. You feel as if you really exist.
It would be quite wrong for me to offer any woman easy
how-to answers to this problem. There are no easy answers, in America today; it is difficult, painful, and takes
perhaps a long time for each woman to find her own answer. First, she must unequivocally say "no" to the housewife image. This does not mean, of course, that she must
divorce her husband, abandon her children, give up her
l:;1ome. She does not have to choose between marriage and
career; that was the mistaken choice of the feminine mystique. In actual fact, it is not as difficult as the feminine
mystique implies, to combine marriage and motherhood
and even the kind of lifelong personal purpose that once
was called "career." It merely takes a new life plan-in
terms of one's whole life as a woman.
The first step in that plan is to see housework for what
it is-not a career, but something that must be done as
quickly and efficiently as possible. Once a woman stops trying to make cooking, cleaning, washing, ironing, "something
more," she can say "no, I don't want a stove with rounded
corners, I don't want four different kinds of soap." She can
say "no" to those mass daydreams of the women's magazines and television, "no" to the depth researchers and manipulators who are trying to run her life. Then, she can use
the vacuum cleaner and the dishwasher and all the automatic appliances, and even the instant mashed potatoes for
what they are truly worth-to save time that can be used
in more creative ways.
The second step, and perhaps the most difficult for the
products of sex-directed education, is to see marriage as it
really is, brushing aside the veil of over-glorification imposed by the feminine mystique. Many women I talked to
felt strangely discontented with their husbands, continually
irritated with their children, when they saw marriage and
motherhood as the final fulfillment of their lives. But
when they began to use their various abilities with a purpose of their own in society, they not only spoke of a new
feeling of "aliveness" or "completeness" in themselves, but
of a new, though hard to define, difference in the way they
felt about their husbands and children. Many echoed this
woman's words:

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

331

The funny thing is, I enjoy my children more now
that I've made room for myself. Before, when I was
putting my whole self into the children, it was as if I was
always looking for something through them. I couldn't
just enjoy them as I do now, as though they were a sunset, something outside me, separate. Before, I felt so tied
down by them, I'd try to get away in my mind. Maybe a
woman has to be by herself to be really with her children.
A New England lawyer's wife told me:
I thought I had finished. I had come to the end of
childhood, had married, had a baby, and I was happy
with my marriage. But somehow I was disconsolate, because I assumed this was the end. I would take up upholstery one week, Sunday painting the next. My house
was spotless. I devoted entirely too much time to entertaining my child. He didn't need all that adult companionship. A grown woman playing with a child all day,
disintegrating herself in a hundred directions to fill the
time, cooking fancy food when no one needs it, and then
furious if they don't eat it-you lose your adult common sense, your whole sense of yourself as a human being.
Now I'm studying history, one course a year. It's work,
but I haven't missed a night in 211z years. Soon I'll be
teaching. I love being a wife and mother, blft I know
now that when marriage is the end of your life, because
you have no other mission, it becomes a miserable, tawdry thing. Who said women have to be happy, to be
amused, to be entertained? You have to work. You don't
have to have a job. But you have to tackle something
yourself, and see it through, to feel alive.
An hour a day, a weekend, or even a week off from
motherhood is not the answer to the problem that has no
name. That "mother's hour off,"! as advised by child-andfamily experts or puzzled doctors as the antidote for the
housewife's fatigue or trapped feeling, assumes automatically that a woman is "just a housewife," now and forever
a mother. A person fully used by his work can enjoy "time
off." But the mothers I talked to did not find any magical
relief in an "hour off"; in fact, they often gave it up on the

332

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

slightest pretext, either from guilt or from boredom. A
woman who has no purpose of her own in society, a woman who cannot let herself think about the future because
she is doing nothing to give herself a real identity in it, will
continue to feel a desperation in the present-no matter
how many "hours off" she takes. Even a very young woman today must think of herself as a human being first, not
as a mother with time on her hands, and make a life plan
in terms of her own abilities, a commitment of her own to
society, with which her commitments as wife and mother
can be integrated.
A woman I interviewed, a mental-health educator who
was for many years "just a housewife" in her suburban
community, sums it up: "I remember my own feeling that
life wasn't full enough for me. I wasn't using myself in terms
of my capacities. It wasn't enough making a home. You
can't put the genie back in the bottle. You can't just deny
your intelligent mind; you need to be part of the social
scheme."
And looking over the trees of her garden to the quiet,
empty suburban street, she said:
If you knock on any of these doors, how many women would YOll find whose abilities are being used? You'd
find them drinking, or sitting around talking to other
women and watching children play because they can't
bear to be alone, or watching TV or reading a book.
Society hasn't caught up with women yet, hasn't found a
way yet to use the skills and energies of women except
to bear children. Over the last fifteen years, I think
women have been running away from themselves. The
reason the young ones have swallowed this feminine business is because they think if they go back and look for
all their satisfaction in the home, it will be easier. But it
won't be. Somewhere along the line a woman, if she is
going to come to terms with herself, has to find herself
as a person.

The only way for a woman, as for a man, to find herself, to know herself as a person, is by creative work of
her own. There is no other way. But a job, any job, is not
the answer-in fact, it can be part of the trap. Women
who do not look for jobs equal to their actual capacity,
who do not let themselves develop the lifetime interests and

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

333

goals which require serious education and training, who
take a job at twenty or forty to "help out at home" or just
to kill extra time, are walking, almost as surely as the ones
who stay inside the housewife trap, to a nonexistent future.
If a job is to be the way out of the trap for a woman, it
must be a job that she can take seriously as part of a life
plan, work in which she can grow as part of society. Suburban communities, particularly the new communities
where social, cultural, educational, political, and recreational patterns are not as yet firmly established, offer numerous opportunities for the able, intelligent woman. But
such work is not necessarily a "job." In Westchester, on
Long Island, in the Philadelphia suburbs, women have
started mental-health clinics, art centers, day camps. In big
cities and small towns, women all the way from New England to California have pioneered new movements in politics and education. Even if this work was not thought of
as "job" or "career," it was often so important to the various communities that professionals are now being paid for
doing it
In some suburbs and communities there is now little
work left for the nonprofessional that requires intelligence
-except for the few positions of leadership which most
women, these days, lack the independence, the strength, the
self-confidence to take. If the community has a high proportion of educated women, there simply are not enough
such posts to go around. As a result, community work often
expands in a kind of self-serving structure of committees
and red tape, in the purest sense of Parkinson's law, until
its real purpose seems to be just to keep women busy Such
busywork is not satisfying to mature women, nor does it
help the immature to grow. This is not to say that being a
den mother, or serving on a PTA committee, or organizing
a covered-dish supper is not useful work; for a woman of
intelligence and ability, it is simply not enough.
One woman I interviewed had involved herself in an
endless whirl of worthwhile community activities. But they
led in no direction for her own future, nor did they truly
utilize her exceptional intelligence. Indeed, her intelligence
seemed to deteriorate; she suffered the problem that has no
name with increasing severity until she took the first step
toward a serious commitment. Today she is a "master
teacher," a serene wife and mother.

334

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

At first, I took on the hospital fund-raising committee, the clerical volunteers committee for the clinic. I
was class mother for the children's field trips. I was taking piano lessons to the tune of $30 a week, paying baby
sitters so I could play for my own amusement. I did the
Dewey decimal system for the library we started, and
the usual den mother and PTA. The financial outlay for
all these things which were only needed to fill up my
life was taking a good slice out of my husband's income.
And it still didn't fill up my life. I was cranky and
moody. I would burst into tears for no reason. I couldn't
even concentrate to finish a detective story.
I was so busy, running from morning till night, and
yet I never had any real feeling of satisfaction. You raise
your kids, sure, but how can that justify your life? You
have to have some ultimate objective, some long-term
goal to keep you going. Community activities are shortterm goals; you do a project; it's done; then you have to
hunt for another one. In community work, they say you
mustn't bother the young mothers with little children.
This is the job of the middle-aged ones whose kids are
grown. But it's just the ones who are tied down with the
kids who need to do this. When you're not tied down by
kids, drop that stuff-you need real work.
Because of the feminine mystique (and perhaps because
of the simple human fear of failure, when one does compete, without sexual privilege or excuse), it is the jump
from amate.u r to professional that is often hardest for a
woman on her way out of the trap. But even if a woman
does not have to work to eat, she can find identity only in
work that is of real value to society2 -work for which,
usually, our society pays. Being paid is, of course, more
than a reward-it implies a definite commitment. For fear
of that commitment, hundreds of able, educated suburban
housewives today fool themselves about the writer or actress they might have been, or dabble at art or music in
the dilettante's limbo of "self-enrichment," or apply for
jobs as receptionists or saleswomen, jobs well below their
actual abilities. These are also ways of evading growth.
The growing boredom of American women with volunteer work, and their preference fQr paid jobs, no matter
how low-level, has been attributed to the fact that profes-

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

335

sionals have taken over most of the posts in the community
requiring intelligence. But the fact that women did not become professionals themselves, the reluctance of women in
the last twenty years to commit themselves to work, paid
or unpaid, requiring initiative, leadership and responsibilitY
is due to the feminine mystique. This attitude of noncommitment among young housewives was confirmed by a recent study done in Westchester County.3 In an upperincome suburb, more than 50% of a group of housewives
between 25 and 35, with husbands in the over-$25,000-ayear income group, wanted to go to work: 13% immediately, the rest in 5 to 15 years. Of those who planned to go
to work, 3 out of 4 felt inadequately prepared. (All of
these women had some college education but only one a
graduate degree; a third had married at twenty or before.)
These women were not driven to go to work by economic
need but by what the anthropologist who made the survey
called "the psychological need to be economically productive." Evidently, volunteer work did not meet this need;
though 62% of these women were doing volunteer work,
it was of the "one-day and under" variety. And though
they wanted jobs and felt inadequately prepared, of the
45% taking courses, very few were working toward a degree. The element of phantasy in their work plans was witnessed by "the small businesses that open and close with
sad regularity." When an alumnae association sponsored a
two-session forum in the suburb on "How Women in the
Middle Years Can Return to Work," twenty-five women
attended. As a beginning step, each woman was asked to
come to the second meeting with a resume. The resume
took some thought, and, as the researcher put it, "sincerity
of purpose." Only one woman was serious enough to write
the resume.
In another suburb, there is a guidance center which in
the early years of the mental-health movement gave real
scope to the intelligence of college-educated women of the
community. They never did therapy, of course, but in the
early years they administered the center and led the educational parent-discussion groups. Now that "education for
family living" has become professionalized, the center is administered and the discussion groups led by professionals,
often brought in from the city, who have M.A.'s or doctorates in the field. In only a very few cases did the women
who "found themselves" in the work of the guidance center

336

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

go on in the new profession, and get their own M.A.'s and
Ph.D.'s. Most backed off when to continue would have
meant breaking away from the housewife role, and becoming seriously committed to a profession.
Ironically, the only kind of work which permits an able
woman to realize her abilities fully, to achieve identity in
society in a life plan that can encompass marriage and
motherhood, is the kind that was forbidden by the feminine
mystique; the lifelong commitment to an art or science, to
politics or profession. Such a commitment is not tied to a
specific job or locality. It permits year-to-year variationa full-time paid job in one community, part-time in another, exercise of the professional skill in serious volunteer
work or a period of study during pregnancy or early motherhood when a full-time job is not feasible. It is a continuous thread, kept alive by work and study and contacts
in the field, in any part of the country.
The women I found who had made and kept alive such
long-term commitments did not suffer the problem that has
no name. Nor did they live in the housewife image. But
music or art or politics offered no magic solution for the
women who did not, or could not, commit themselves seriously. The "arts" seem, at first glance, to be the ideal answer for a woman. They can, after all, be practiced in the
home. They do not necessarily imply that dreaded professionalism, they are suitably feminine, and seem to offer
endless room for personal growth and identity, with no
need to compete in society for pay. But I have noticed that
when women do not take up painting or ceramics seriously
enough to become professionals-to be paid for their work,
or for teaching 11 to others, and to be recognized as a peer
by other professionals-sooner or later, they cease dabbling; the Sunday painting, the idle ceramics do not bring
that needed sense of self when they are of no value to anyone else. The amateur or dilettante whose own work is not
good enough for anyone to want to pay to hear or see or
read does not gain real status by it in society, or real personal identity. These are reserved for those who have made
the effort, acquired the knowledge and expertise to become
professionals.
There are, of course, a number of practical problems
involved in making a· serious professional commitment. But
somehow those problems only seem insurmountable when

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

o

337

a woman is still half-submerged in the false dilemmas and
guilts of the feminine mystique--<>r when her desire for
"something more" is only phantasy, and she is unwilling to
make the necessary effort. Over and over, women told me
that the crucial step for them was simply to take the first
trip to the alumnae employment agency, or to send for the
application for teacher certification, or to make appointments with former job contacts in the city. It is amazing
how many obstacles and rationalizations the feminine mystique can throw up to keep a woman from making that
trip or writing that letter.
One suburban housewife I knew had once been a newspaper woman, but she was sure she could never get that
kind of job again; she had been away too long. And, of
course, she couldn't really leave her children (who, by then,
were all in school during the day). As it turned out, when
she finally decided to do something about it, she found an
excellent job in her old field after only two trips into the
city. Another woman, a psychiatric social worker, said that
she could not take a regular agency job, only volunteer jobs
without deadlines that she could put down when she felt
like it, because she could not count on a cleaning woman.
Actually, if she had hired a cleaning woman, which many
of her neighbors were doing for much less reason, she
would have had to commit herself to the kind of assignments that would have been a real test of her ability. Obviously she was afraid of such a test.
A great many suburban housewives today step back
from, or give up, volunteer activity, art, or job at the very
point when all that is needed is a more serious commitment. The PTA leader won't run for the school board. The
League of Women Voters' leader is afraid to move on into
the rough mainstream of her political party. "Women can't
get a policy-making role," she says. "I'm not going to lick
stamps." Of course, it would require more effort for her to
win a policy-making role in her party against the prejudices
and the competition of the men.
Some women take the jobs but do not make the necessary new life plan. I interviewed two women of ability,
both of whom were bored as housewives and both of whom
got jobs in the same research institute. They loved the increasingly chall!!nging work, and were quickly promoted.
But, in their thirties, after ten years as housewives, they
earned very little money. The first woman, clearly recog-

338

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

nizing the future this work held for her, spent virtually her
entire salary on a three-day-a-week cleaning woman. The
second woman, who felt her work was justified only if it
"helped out with family expenses," would not spend any
money for cleaning help. Nor did she consider asking her
husband and children to help out with household chores, or
save time by ordering groceries by phone and sending the
laundry out. She quit her job after a year from sheer exhaustion. The first woman, who made the necessary household changes and sacrifices, today, at thirty-eight, has one
of the leading jobs at the institute and makes a substantial
contribution to her family's income, over and above what
she pays for her part-time household help. The second, after two weeks of "rest," began to suffer the old desperation.
But she persuaded herself that she will "cheat" her husband
and children less by finding work she can do at home.
The picture of the happy housewife doing creative work
at home-painting, sculpting. writing-is one of the semidelusions of the feminine mystique. There are men and
women who can do it; but when a man works at home, his
wife keeps the children strictly out of the way, or else. It
is not so easy for a woman; if she is serious about her work
she often must find some place away from home to do it,
or risk becoming an ogre to her children in her impatient
demands for privacy. Her attention is divided and her concentration interrupted, on the job and as a mother. A nononsense nine-to-five job, with a clear division between
professional work and housework, requires much less discipline and is usually less lonely. Some of the stimulation
and the new friendships that come from being part of the
professional world can be lost by the woman who tries to
fit her career into the physical confines of her housewife
life.
A woman must say "no" to the feminine mystique very
clearly indeed to sustain the discipline and effort that any
professional commitment requires. For the mystique is no
mere intellectual construct. A great many people have, or
think they have, a vested interest in "Occupation: housewife." However 10l'lg it may take for women's magazines,
sociologists, educators, and psychoanalysts to correct the
mistakes that perpetuate the feminine mystique, a woman
must deal with them now, in the prejUdices, mistaken fears,
and unnecessary dilemmas voiced by her husband; hoc
friends and neighbors; perhaps her minister, priest, or rab-

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

339

hi; or her child's kindergarten teacher; or the well-meaning
social worker at the guidance clinic; or her own innocent
little children. But resistance, from whatever source, is better seen for what it is.
Even the traditional resistance of religious orthodoxy is
masked today with the manipUlative techniques of psychotherapy. Women of orthodox Catholic or Jewish origin do
not easily break through the housewife image; it is enshrined in the canons of their religion, in the assumptions
of their own and their husbands' childhoods, and in their
church's dogmatic definitions of marriage and motherhood.
The ease with which dogma can be dressed in the psychological tenets of the mystique can be seen in this "Suggested
Outline for Married Couples' Discussions" from the Family
Life Bureau of the Archdiocese of New York. A panel of
three or four married couples, after rehearsal by a "priestmoderator," are instructed to raise the question: "Can a
working wife be a challenge to the authority of the husband?"
Most of the engaged couples are convinced that there
is nothing unusual or wrong in the wife working. . . .

Don't antagonize. Be suggestive, rather than dogmatic.
• • . The panel couples should point out that the bride
who is happy at a 9-to-5 o'clock job has this to think
about:
a. She may be subtly undermining her husband's sense
of vocation as the bread-winner and head of the
house. The competitive business world can inculcate
in the working bride attitudes and habits which may
make it difficult for her to adjust to her husband's
leadership. . ..
b. At the end of a working day, she presents her husband with a tired mind and body at a time when he
looks forward to the cheerful encouragement and
fresh enthusiasm of his spouse...•
c. For some brides, the tension of doubling as business
woman and part-time housewife may be one of several factors contributing to sterility .•.
One Catholic woman I interviewed withdrew from the
state board of the League of Women Voters, when, in addition to the displeasure of the priest and her own husband, the school psychologist claimed that her daughter's

340

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

difficulties at school were due to her political activity. "It
is more difficult for a Catholic woman to stay emancipated," she told me. "I have retired. It will be better for
everyone concerned if I am just a housewife." At this point
the telephone rang, and I eavesdropped with interest on a
half-hour of high political strategy, evidently not of the
League but of the local Democratic Party. The "retired"
politician came back into the kitchen to finish preparing
dinner, and confessed that she now hid her political activity
at home "like an alcoholic or a drug addict, but I don't
seem to be able to give it up."
Another woman, of Jewish tradition, gave up her profession as a doctor when she became a doctor's wife, devoting herself to bringing up their four children. Her husband
was not overjoyed-when she began brushing up to retake
her medical exams after her youngest reached school age.
An unassertive, quiet woman, she exerted almost unbelievable effort to obtain her license after fifteen years of inactivity. She told me apologetically; "You just can't stop
being interested. I tried to make myself, but I couldn't."
And she confessed that 'when she gets a night call, she
sneaks out as guiltily as if she were meeting a lover.
Even to a woman of less orthodox tradition, the most
powerful weapon of the feminine mystique is the argument
that she rejects her husband and her children by working
outside the home. If, for any reason, her child becomes ill
or her husband has troubles of his own, the feminine mystique, insidious voices in the community, and even the
woman's own inner voice will blame her "rejection" of the
housewife role. It is then that many a woman's commitment to herself and society dies aborning or takes a serious
detour.
One woman told me that she gave up her job in television to become "just a housewife" because her husband
suddenly decided his troubles in his own profession were
caused by her failure to "play the feminine role"; she was
trying to "compete" with him; she wanted "to wear the
pants." She, like most women today, was vulnerable to such
charges-one psychiatrist calls it the "career woman's guilt
.syndrome." And so she began to devote all the energies
she had once put into her work to running her familyand to a nagging critical interest in her husband's career.
In her spare time in the suburbs, however, she rather

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

341

absent-mindedly achieved flamboyant local success as the
director of a little-theater group. This, on top of her critical attention to her husband's career, was far more destructive to his ego and a much more constant irritation to
him and to her children than her professional work in
which she had competed impersonally with other professionals in a world far away from home. One day, when
she was directing a little-theater rehearsal, her son was hit
by an automobile. She blamed herself for the accident, and
so she gave up the little-theater group, resolving this time,
cross her heart, that she would be "just a housewife."
She suffered, almost immediately, a severe case of the
problem that has no name; her depression and dependence
made her husband's life hell. She sought analytic help, and
in a departure from the nondirective approach of orthodox
analysts, her therapist virtually ordered her to get back to
work. She started writing a serious novel with finally the
kind of commitment she had evaded, even when she had a
job. In her absorption, she stopped worrying about her husband's career; imperceptibly, she stopped phantasying another accident every time her son was out of her sight. And
still, though she was too far along to retreat, she sometimes
wondered if she were putting her marriage on the chopping
block.
Contrary to the mystique, her husband-reacting either
to the contagious example of her commitment, or to the
breathing space afforded by the cessation of her hysterical
dependence, or for independent reasons of his ownbuckled down to the equivalent of that novel in his own
career. There were still problems, of course, but not the
old ones; when they broke out of their own traps, somehow their relationship with each other began growing again.
Still, with every kind of growth, there are risks. I encountered one woman in my interviews whose husband divorced her shortly after she went to work. Their marriage
had become extremely destructive. The sense of identity
that the woman achieved from her work may have made
her less willing to accept the destructiveness, and perhaps
precipitated the divorce; but it also made her more able to
survive it.
In other instances, however, women told me that the
violent objections of their husbands disappeared when they
finally made up their own minds and went to work. Had

342

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

they magnified their husband's objections to evade decision
themselves? Husbands I have interviewed in this same context were sometimes surprised to find it "a relief" to be
no longer the only sun and moon in their wives' world; they
were the object of less nagging and fewer insatiable demands and they no longer had to feel guilt over their wives'
discontent. As one man put it: "Not only is the financial
burden lighter-and frankly, that is a relief-but the whole
burden of living seems easier since Margaret went to work."
There are husbands, however, whose resistance is not so
easily dispelled. The husband who is unable to bear his
wife's saying "no" to the feminine mystique often has been
seduced himself by the infantile phantasy of having an everpresent mother, or is trying to relive that phantasy through
his children. It is difficult for a woman to tell such a husband that she is not his mother and that their children will
be better off without her constant attention. Perhaps if she
becomes more truly herself and refuses to act out his phantasy any longer, he will suddenly wake up and see her again.
And then again, perhaps he will look for another mother.
Another hazard a woman faces on her way out of the
housewife trap is the hostility of other housewives. Just as
the man evading growth in his own work resents his wife's
growth, so women who are living vicariously through their
husbands and children resent the woman who has a life of
her own. At dinner parties, the nursery school affair, the
PTA open house, a woman who is more than just a housewife can expect a few barbs from her suburban neighbors.
She no longer has the time for idle gossip over endless cups
of coffee in the breakfast nook; she can no longer share
with other wives that cozy "we're all in the same boat" illusion; her very presence rocks that boat. And she can expect her home, her husband, and her children to be scrutinized with more than the usual curiosity for the slightest
sign of a "problem." This kind of hostility, however, sometimes masks a secret envy. The most hostile of the "happy
housewives" may be the first to ask her neighbor with the
new career for advice about moving on herself.
For the woman who moves on, there is always the sense
of loss that accompanies change: old friends, familiar and
reassuring routines lost, the new ones not yet clear. It is so
much easier for a woman to say "yes" to the feminine mystique, and not risk the pains of moving on, that the will to

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

343

make the efIort-"ambition"-is as necessary as ability itself, if she is going to move out of the housewife trap. "Ambition," like "career," has been made a dirty word by the
feminine mystique. When Polly Weaver, "College and Careers" editor of Mademoiselle, surveyed 400 women in 1956
on the subject of "ambition" and "competition,"4 most of
them had "guilty feelings" about being ambitious. They
tried, in Miss Weaver's words, to "make it uplifting, not
worldly and selfish like eating. We were surprised . . . at
the number of women who drive themselves from morning
to night for a job or the community or church, for example,
but don't want a nickel's worth out of it for themselves.
They don't want money, social position, power, influence,
recognition. . . . Are these women fooling themselves?"
The mystique would have women renounce ambition for
themselves. Marriage and motherhood is the end; after
that, women are supposed to be ambitious only for their
husbands and their children. Many women who indeed
"fool themselves" push husband and children to fulfill that
unadmitted ambition of their own. There were, however,
many frankly ambitious women among those who responded to the Mademoiselle survey-and they did not seem to
suffer from it.
The ambitious women who answered our questionnaire had few regrets over sacrifices of sweet old friends,
family picnics, and time for reading books no one talks
about. They got more than they gave up, they said, and
cited new friends, the larger world they move in, the
great spurts of growth they had when they worked with
the brilliant and talented-and most of all the satisfaction of working at full steam, putt-putting along like a
pressure cooker. In fact, some happy ambitious women
make the people around them happy-their husbands,
children, their colleagues. . . . A very ambitious woman
is not happy, either, leaving her prestige entirely to her
husband's success. . . . To the active, ambitious woman, ambition is the thread that runs through her life from
beginning to end, holding it together and enabling her to
think of her life as a work of art instead of a collection
of fragments . •
For the women I interviewed who had suffered and

344

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

solved the problem that has no name, to fulfill an ambition of their own, long buried or brand new, to work at
top capacity, to have a sense of achievement, was like finding a missing piece in the puzzle of their lives. The money
they earned often made life easier for the whole family,
but none of them pretended this was the only reason they
worked, or the main thing they got out of it. That sense of
being complete and fully a part of the world-"no longer
an island, part of the mainland"-had come back. They
knew that it did not come from the work alone, but from
the whole--their marriage, homes, children, work, their
changing, growing links with the community. They were
once again human beings, not "just housewives." Such
women are the lucky ones. Some may have been driven to
that ambition by childhood rejection, by an ugly-duckling
adolescence, by unhappiness in marriage, by divorce or
widowhood: It is both an irony and an indictment of the
feminine mystique that it often forced the unhappy ones,
the ugly ducklings, to find themselves, while girls who fitted
the image became adjusted "happy" housewives and have
never found out who they are. But to say that "frustration"
can be good for a girl would be to miss the point; such
frustration should not have to be the price of identity for a
woman, nor is it in itself the key. The mystique has kept
both pretty girls and ugly ones, who might have written
poems like Edith Sitwell, from discovering their own gifts;
kept happy wives and unhappy ones who might have found
themselves as Ruth Benedict did in anthropology, from
even discovering their own field. And suddenly the final
piece of the puzzle fits into place.
There was one thing without which even the most frustrated seldom found their way out of the trap. And, regardless of childhood experience, regardless of luck in marriage, there was one thing that produced frustration in all
women of this time who tried to adjust to the housewife
image. There was one thing shared by all I encountered who
finally found their own way.
The key to the trap is, of course, education. The feminine mystique has made higher education for women seem
suspect, unnecessary and even dangerous. But I think that
education, and only education, has saved, and can continue
to save, American women from the greater dangers of the
feminine mystique.

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

345

In 1957 when I was asked to do an alumnae questionnaire of my own college classmates fifteen years after their
graduation from Smith, I seized on the chance, thinking
that I could disprove the growing belief that education
made women "masculine," hampered their sexual fulfillment, caused unnecessary conflicts and frustrations. I discovered that the critics were half-right; education was dangerous and frustrating-but only when women did not use
it.
Of the 200 women who answered that questionnaire in
1957,89 per cent were housewives. They had lived through
all the possible frustrations that education can cause in
housewives. But when they were asked, "What difficulties
have you found in working out your role as a woman? .••
What are the chief satisfactions and frustrations of your
life today? . . . How have you changed inside? . . . How
do you feel about getting older? . . . What do you wish
you had done differently? . . ." it was discovered that
their real problems, as women, were not caused by their
education. In general, they regretted only one thing-that
they had not taken their education seriously enough, that
they had not planned to put it to serious use.
Of the 97 per cent of these women who married-usually about three years after co\lege--<>nly 3 per cent had
been divorced; of 20 per cent who had been interested in
another man since marriage, most "did nothing about it."
As mothers, 86 per cent planned their children's births and
enjoyed their pregnancies; 70 per cent breastfed their babies from one to nine months. They had more children
than their mothers (average: 2.94), but only 10 per cent
had ever felt "martyred" as mothers. Though 99 per cent
reported that sex was only "one factor among many" in
their lives, they neither felt over and done with sexually,
nor were they just beginning to feel the sexual satisfaction
of being a woman. Some 85 per cent reported that sex "gets
better with the years," but they also found it "less important than it used to be." They shared life with their husbands "as fully as one can with another human being," but
75 per cent admitted readily that they could not share all
of it.
Most of them (60 per cent) could not honestly say, in
reporting their main occupation as homemaker, that they
found it "totally fulfilling." They only spent an average of
four hours a day on housework and they did not "enjoy"

346

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

it. It was perhaps true that their education made them frustrated in their role as housewives. Educated before the era
of the feminine mystique, many of them had faced a sharp
break from their emerging identity in that housewife role.
And yet most of these women continued to grow within
the framework of suburban housewifery-perhaps because
of the autonomy, the sense of purpose, the commitment to
larger values which their education had given them.
Some 79 per cent had found some way to pursue the
goals that education had given them, for the most part within the physical confines of their communities. The old Helen Hokinson caricatures notwithstanding, their assumption
of community responsibility was, in general, an act of maturity, a commitment that used and renewed strength of
self. For these women, community activity almost always
had the stamp of innovation and individuality, rather than
the stamp of conformity, status-seeking, or escape. They
set up cooperative nursery schools in suburbs where none
existed; they started teen-age canteens and libraries in
schools where Johnny wasn't reading because, quite simply,
there were no good books. They innovated new educational
programs that finally became a part of the curriculum.
One was personally instrumental in getting 13,000 signatures for a popular referendum to get politics out of the
school system. One publicly spoke out for desegregation of
schools in the South. One got white children to attend a de
facto segregated school in the North. One pushed an appropriation for mental~health clinics through a Western
state legislature. One set up museum art programs for school
children in each of three cities she had lived in since marriage. Others started or led suburban choral groups, civic
theaters, foreign-policy study groups. Thirty per cent were
active in local party politics, from the committee level to
the state assembly. Over 90 per cent reported that they
read the newspaper thoroughly every day and voted regularly. They evidently never watched a daytime television
program and seemed almost never to play bridge, or read
women's magazines. Of the fifteen to three hundred books
apiece they had read in that one year, half were not best
sellers.
Facing forty, most of these women could report quite
frankly that their hair was graying, and their "skin looks
faded and tired," and yet say, with not much regret for
lost youth, "I have a growing sense of self-realization, inner

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

347

serenity and strength." "I have become more my real self."
"How do you visualize your life after your children are
grown?" they were asked on the questionnaire. Most of
them (60 per cent) had concrete plans for work or study.
They planned to finish their education finally, for many
who had no career ambitions in college had them now. A
few had reached "the depths of bitterness," "the verge of
disillusion and despair," trying to live just as housewives . .
A few confessed longingly that "running my house and raising four children does not really use my education or the
ability I once seemed to have. If only it were possible to
combine motherhood and a career." And the most bitter
were those who said: "Never have found out what kind of
a person I am. I wasted college trying to find myself in
social life. I wish now that I had gone into something deeply enough to have a creative life of my own." But most did
know, now, who they were and what they wanted to do;
and 80 per cent regretted not having planned, seriously, to
use their education in professional work. Passive appreciation and even active participation in community affairs
would no longer be enough when their children were a little
older. Many women reported that they were planning to
teach; fortunately for them, the great need for teachers
gave them a chance to get back in the stream. Others anticipated years of further study before they would be qualified in their chosen fields.
These 200 Smith graduates have their counterparts in
women all over the country, women of intelligence and
ability, fighting their way out of the housewife trap, or never really trapped at all because of their education. But these
graduates of 1942 were among the last American women
educated before the feminine mystique.
In another questionnaire answered by almost 10,000
graduates of Mount Holyoke in 1962-its 125th anniversary year-one sees the effect of the mystique on women
educated in the last two decades. The Mount Holyoke
alumnae showed a similar high marriage and low divorce
rate (2 per cent over-all). But before 1942, most were
married at twenty-five or older; after 1942, the marriage
age showed a dramatic drop, and the percentage having
four or more children showed a dramatic rise. Before
1942, two-thirds or more of the graduates went on to further study; that proportion has steadily declined. Few, in
recent classes, have won advanced degrees in the arts, sci-

348

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ences, law, medicine, education, compared to the 40 per
cent in 1937. A drastically decreasing number also seem to
share the larger vistas of national or international commitment; participation in local political clubs had dropped to
12 per cent by the class of 1952. From 1942 on, few graduates had any professional affiliation. Half of all the
Mount Holyoke alumnae had worked at one time but were
no longer working, primarily because they had chosen "the
role of housewife." Some had returned to work-both to
supplement income and because they liked to work. But in
the classes from 1942 on, where most of the women were
now housewives, nearly half did not intend to return to
work.
The declining area of commitment to the world outside
the home from 1942 on is a clear indication of the effect
of the feminine mystique on educated women. Having seen
the desperate emptiness, the "trapped" feeling of many
young women who were educated under the mystique to
be "just a housewife," I realize the significance of my classmates' experience. Because of their education many of
them were able to combine serious commitments of their
own with marriage and family. They could participate in
community activities that required intelligence and responsibility, and move on, with a few years' preparation, into
professional social work or teaching. They could get jobs as
substitute teachers or part-time social workers to finance
the courses needed for certification. They had often grown
to the point where they did not want to return to the fields
they had worked in after college, and they could even get
into a new field with the core of autonomy that their education had given them.
But what of the young women today who have never
had a taste of higher education, who quit college to marry
or marked time in their classrooms waiting for the "right
man?" What will they be at forty? Housewives in every
suburb and city are seeking more education today, as if a
course, any course, will give them the identity they are
groping toward. But the courses they take, and the courses
they are offered, are seldom intended for real use in society. Even more than the education she evaded at eighteen
in sexual phantasy, the education a woman can get at forty
is permeated, contaminated, diluted by the feminine mystique.
Courses in golf, bridge, rug-hooking, gourmet cooking,

349
A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN
sewing are intended, I suppose, for real use, by women who
stay in the housewife trap. The so-called intellectual
courses offered in the usual adult education centers-art
appreciation, ceramics, short-story writing, conversational
French, Great Books, astronomy in the Space Age-are intended only as "self-enrichment." The study, the effort,
even the homework that imply a long-term commitment
are not expected of the housewife.
Actually, many women who take these courses desperately need serious education; but if they have never had a
taste of it, they do not know how and where to look for it,
nor do they even understand that so many adult education
courses are unsatisfactory simply because they are not serious. The dimension of reality essential even to "self-enrichment" is barred, almost by definition, in a course specificaI!y designed for "housewives." This is true, even where
the institution giving the course has the highest standards.
Recently, Radcliffe announced an "Institute for Executives'
Wives" (to be followed presumably by an Institute for
Scientists' Wives," or an "Institute for Artists' Wives," or
an Institute for College Professors' Wives") The executive's wife or the scientist's wife, at thirty-five or forty,
whose children are all at school is hardly going to be helped
to the new identity she needs by learning to take a more
detailed, vicarious share of her husband's world. What she
needs is training for creative work of her own.
Among the women I interviewed, education was the key .
to the problem ,that has no name only when it was part of
a new life plan, and meant for serious use in societyamateur or professional. They were able to find such education only in the regular colleges and universities. Despite
the wishful thinking engendered by the feminine mystique
in girls and in their educators, an education evaded at
eighteen or twenty-one is insuperably harder to obtain at
thirty-one or thirty-eight or forty-one, by a woman who
has a husband and three or four children and a home. She
faces, in the college or university, the prejudices created by
the feminine mystique. No matter how brief her absence
from the academic proving ground, she will have to demonstrate her seriousness of purpose over and over again to
be readmitted. She must then compete with the teeming
hordes of children she and others like her have overproduced in this era. It is not easy for a grown woman to sit
through courses geared to teenagers, to be treated as a teen-

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
350
ager again, to have to prove that she deserves to be taken
as seriously as a teenager. A woman has to exercise great
ingenuity, endure many rebuffs and disappointments, to
find an education that fits her need, and also make it fit
her other commitments as wife and mother.
One woman I interviewed who had never gone to college, decided, after psychotherapy, to take two courses a
year at a nearby university which, fortunately, had an evening school. At first, she had no idea where it was leading
her, but after two years, she decided to major in history
and prepare to teach it in high school. She maintained a
good record, even though she was often impatient with the
slow pace and the busywork. But, at least, studying with
some purpose made her feel better than when she used to
read mystery stories or magazines at the playground. Above
all, it was leading to something real for the future. But at
the rate of two courses a year (which then cost $420, and
two evenings a week in class), it would have taken her
ten years to get a B.A. The second year, money was scarce,
and she could only take one course. She could not apply
for a student loan unless she went full time, which she
could not do until her youngest was in first grade. In spite
of it all, she stuck it out that way for four years-noticing
that more and more of the other housewives in her classes
dropped out because of money, or because "the whole thing
was going to take too long."
Then, with her youngest in first grade, she became a fulltime student in the regular college, where the pace was
even slower because the students were "less serious." She
couldn't endure the thought of all the years ahead to get
an M.A. (which she would need to teach high-school history in that state), so she switched to an education major.
She certainly would not have continued this expensive, tortuous education if, by now, she had not had a clear life
plan to use it, a plan that required it. Committed to elementary teaching, she was able to get a government loan
for part of her full-time tuition (now exceeding $1,000 a
year), and in another two years she will be finished.
Even against such enormous obstacles, more and more
women, with virtually no help from society and with belated and begrudging encouragement from educators themselves, are going back to school to get the education they
need. Their determination betrays women's underestimated
human strength and their urgent need to use it. But only

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

351

the strongest, after nearly twenty years of the feminine
mystique, can move on by themselves. For this is not just
the private problem of each individual woman. There are
implications of the feminine mystique that must be faced
on a national scale.
The problem that has no name-which is simply the fact
that American women are kept from growing to their full
human capacities-is taking a far greater toll on the physical and mental health of our country than any known disease. Consider the high incidence of emotional breakdown
of women in the "role crises" of their twenties and thirties;
the alcoholism and suicides in their forties and fifties; the
housewives' monopolization of all doctors' time. Consider
the prevalence of teenage marriages, the growing rate of
illegitimate pregnancies, and even more seriously, the pathology of mother-child symbiosis. Consider the alarming
passivity of American teenagers. If we continue to produce
millions of young mothers who stop their growth and education short of identity, without a strong core of human
values to pass on to their children, we are committing, quite
simply, genocide, starting with the mass burial of American
women and ending with the progressive dehumanization of
their sons and daughters.
These problems cannot be solved by medicine, or even
by psychotherapy. We need a drastic reshaping of the cultural image of femininity that will permit women to reach
maturity, identity, completeness of self, without conflict
with sexual fulfillment. A massive attempt must be made
by educators and parents-and ministers, magazine editors,
manipulators, guidance counselors-to stop the early-marriage movement, stop girls from growing up wanting to be
"just a housewife," stop it by insisting, with the same attention from childhood on that parents and educators give to
boys, that girls develop the resources of self, goals that will
permit them to find their own identity.
It is, of course, no easier for an educator to say "no" to
the feminine mystique than for an individual girl or woman. Even the most advanced of educators, seriously concerned with the desperate need of housewives with leftover
lives on their hands, hesitate to buck the tide of early marriage. They have been browbeaten by the oracles of popularized psychoanalysis and still tremble with guilt at the
thought of interfering with a woman's sexual fulfillment.
The rearguard argument offered by the oracles who are, in

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
352
some cases, right on college campuses themselves, is that
since the primary road to identity for a woman is marriage
and motherhood, serious educational interests or commitments which may cause conflicts in her role as wife and
mother should be postponed until the childbearing years
are over. Such a warning was made in 1962 by a psychiatric consultant to Yale University-which had been considering admitting women as undergraduates for the same serious education it gives men.
Many young women-if not the majority-seem to be
incapable of dealing with future long-range intellectual
iaterests until they have proceeded through the more
basic phases of their own healthy growth as women.
• . . To be well done, the mother's job in training children and shaping the life of her family should draw on
all a woman's resources, emotional and intellectual, and
upon all her skills. The better her training, the better
chance she will have to do the job well, provided that
emotional road-blocks do not stand in her way: provided, that is, that she has established a good basis for the
development of adult femininity, and that during the
course of her higher education, she is not subjected to
pressures which adv.ersely affect that development. . . .
To urge upon her conflicting goals, to stress that a career
and a profession in the man's world should be the first
consideration in planmng her life, can adversely affect
the full development of her identity. . . . Of all the social freedoms won by her -grandmothers, she prizes first
the freedom to be a "healthy, fulfilled woman, and she
wants to be free of guilt and conflict about it. . . . This
means that though jobs are often possible within the
framework of marriage, "careers" rarely are . . .5
The fact remains that the girl who wastes-as waste she
does-her college years without acquiring serious interests,
and wastes her early job years marking time until she finds
a man, gambles with the possibilities for an identity of her
own, as well as the possibilities for sexual fulfillment and
wholly affirmed motherhood. The educators who encourage a woman to postpone larger interests until her children
are grown make it virtually impossible for her ever to acquire them. It is not that easy for a woman who has defined herself wholly as wife and mother for ten or fifteen

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

353

or twenty years to find new identity at thirty-five or forty
or fifty. The ones who are able to do it are, quite frankly,
the ones who made serious commitments to their earlier
education, the ones who wanted and once worked at careers, the ones who bring to marriage and motherhood a
sense of their own identity-not those who somehow hope
to acquire it later on. A recent study of fifty women college graduates in an eastern suburb and city, the year after
the oldest child had left home, showed that, with very few
exceptions, the only women who had any interests to pursue--in work, in community activities, or in the artshad acquired them in college. The ones who lacked such
interests were not acquiring them now; they slept late, in
their "empty nests," and looked forward only to death. 6
Educators at every women's college, at every university,
junior college, and community college, must see to it that
women make a lifetime commitment (call it a "life plan,"
a "vocation," a "life purpose" if that dirty word career has
too many celibate connotations) to a field of thought, to
work of serious importance to society. They must expect
the girl as well as the boy to take some field seriously
enough to want to pursue it for life. This does not mean
abandoning liberal education for women in favor of "how
to" vocational courses. Liberal education, as it is given at
the best of colleges and universities, not only trains the
mind but provides an ineradicable core of human values.
But liberal education must be planned for serious use, not
merely dilettantism or passive appreciation. As boys at
Harvard or Yale or Columbia or Chicago go on from the
liberal arts core to study architecture, medicine, law, science, girls must be encouraged to go on, to make a life plan.
It has been shown that girls with this kind of a commitment
are less eager to rush into early marriage, less panicky about
finding a man, more responsible for their sexual behavior.7
Most of them marry, of course, but on a much more mature basis. Their marriages then are not an escape but a
commitment shared by two people that becomes part of
their commitment to themselves and society. If, in fact,
girls are educated to make such commitments, the queJition
of sex and when they marry will lose its overwhelming importance. 8 It is the fact that women have no identity of
their own that makes sex, love, marriage, and children seem
the only and essential facts of women's life.
In the face of the feminine mystique with its powerful

354

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

hidden deterrents, educators must realize that they cannot inspire young women to commit themselves seriously
to their education without taking some extraordinary measures. The few so far attempted barely come to grips with
the problem. Mary Bunting's new Institute for Independent
Study at Radcliffe is fine for women who already know
what they want to do, who have pursued their studies to
the Ph.D. or are already active in the arts, and merely
need some respite from motherhood to get back in the
mainstream. Even more important, the presence of these
women on the campus, women who have babies and husbands and who are still deeply committed to their own
work, will undoubtedly help dispel the image of the celibate
. career woman and fire some of those Radcliffe sophomores out of the "climate of unexpectation" that permits
them to meet the nation's highest standard of educational
excellence to use it later only in marriage and motherhood.
This is what Mary Bunting had in mind. And it can be done
elsewhere, in even simpler ways.
It would pay every college and university that wants to
encourage women to take education seriously to recruit for
their faculties all the women they can find who have combined marriage and motherhood with the life of the mind
--even if it means concessions for pregnancies or breaking
the old rule about hiring the wife of the male associate professor who has her own perfectly respectable M.A. or
Ph.D. As for the unmarried woman scholars, they must
no longer be treated like lepers. The simple truth is that
they have taken their existence seriously, and have fulfilled
their human potential. They might well be, and often are,
envied by women who live the very image of opulent togetherness, but have forfeited themselves. Women, as well
as men, who are rooted in human work are rooted in life.
It is essential, above all, for educators themselves to say
"no" to the feminine mystique and face the fact that the
only point in educating women is to educate them to the
limit of their ability. Women do not need courses in "marriage and the family" to marry and raise families; they do
not need courses in homemaking to make homes. But they
must study science---to discover in science, study the
thought of the past-to create new thought; study society
-to pioneer in society. Educators must also give up these
"one thing at a time" compromises. That separate layering
of "education," "sex," "marriage," "motherhood," "inter-

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

355

ests for the last third of life," will not solve the role crisis.
Women must be educated to a new integration of roles.
The more they are encouraged to make that new life plan
-integrating a serious, lifelong commitment to society with
marriage and motherhood-the less conflicts and unnecessary frustrations they will feel as wives and mothers, and
the less their daughters will make mistaken choices for lack
of a full image of woman's identity.
I could see this in investigating college girls' rush to early
marriage. The few who were not in such a desperate hurry
to "get a man" and who committed themselves to serious
long-range interests--evidently not worried that they would
thereby lose their "femininity"-almost all had mothers, or
other private images of women, who were committed to
some serious purpose. ("My mother happens to be a teacher." "My best friend's mother is a doctor; she always seems
so busy and happy.")
Education itself can help provide that new image-and
the spark in girls to create their own-as soon as it stops
compromising and temporizing with the old image of
"woman's role." For women as well as men, education is
and must be the matrix of human evolution. If today
American women are finally breaking out of the housewife trap in search of new identity, it is quite simply because so many women have had a taste of higher education
-unfinished, unfocused, but still powerful enough to force
them on.
For that last and most important battle can be fought in
the mind and spirit of woman herself. Even without a private image, many girls in America who have been educated
simply as people were given a strong enough sense of their
human possibility to carry them past the old femininity,
past that search for security in man's love, to find a new
self. A Swarthmore graduate, entering her internship, told
me that at first, as she felt herself getting more and more
"independent" in college, she worried a lot about having
dates and getting married, wanted to "latch on to a boy."
"I tried to beat myself down to be feminine. Then I got interested in what I was doing and stopped worrying," she
said.
It's as if you've made some kind of shift. You begin to
feel your competence in doing things. Like a baby learning to walk. Your mind begins to expand. You find your

356

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

own field. And that's a wonderful thing. The love of
doing the work and the feeling there's something there
and you can trust it. It's worth the unhappiness. They
say a man has to suffer to grow, maybe something like
that has to happen to women too. You begin not to be
afraid to be yourself.
Drastic steps must now be taken to re-educate the women who were deluded or cheated by the feminine mystique.
Many of the women I interviewed who felt "trapped" as
housewives have in the last few years started to move out
of the trap. But there are as many others who are sinking
back again, because they did not find out in time what
they wanted to do, or because they were not able to find a
way to do it. In almost every case, it took too much time,
too much money, using existing educational facilities. Few
housewives can afford full-time study. Even if colleges admit them on a part-time basis-and many will not-few
women can endure the slow-motion pace of usual undergraduate college education stretched over ten or more
years. Some institutions are now willing to gamble on housewives, but will they be as willing when the flood of their
college-bound offspring reaches its full height? The pilot
programs that have been started at Sarah Lawrence and
the University of Minnesota begin to show the way, but
they do not face the time-money problem which is, for so
many women, the insurmountable one.
What is needed now is a national educational program,
similar to the GI bill, for women who seriously want to
continue or resume their education-and who are willing
to commit themselves to its use in a profession. The bill
would provide properly qualified women with tuition fees,
plus an additional subsidy to defray other expenses-books,
travel, even, if necessary, some household help. Such a measure would cost far less than the GI bill. It would permit
mothers to use existing educational facilities on a part-time
basis and carry on individual study and research projects
at home during the years when regular classroom attendance is impossible. The whole concept of women's education would be regeared from four-year college to a life plan
under which a woman could continue her education, without conflict with her marriage, her husband and her children.
The GI's, matured by war, needed education to find

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

357

their identity in society. In no mood for time-wasting, they
astonished their teachers and themselves by their scholastic
performance. Women who have matured during the housewife moratorium can be counted on for similar performance. Their desperate need for education and the desperate need of this nation for the untapped reserves of
women's intelligence in all the professions justify these
emergency measures.'
For those women who did not go to college, or quit too
soon, for those who are no longer interested in their former
field, or who never took their education seriously, I would
suggest first of all an intensive concentrated re-immersion
in, quite simply, the humanities-not abridgments and selections like the usual freshman or sophomore survey, but
an intensive study like the educational experiments attempted by the Bell Telephone Company or the Ford
Foundation for young executives who had conformed so
completely to the role of organization man that they were
not capable of the initiative and vision required in top executive ranks. For women, this could be done by a national
program, along the lines of the Danish Folk-High-School
movement, which would first bring the housewife back into
the mainstream of thought with a concentrated six-week
summer course, a sort of intellectual "shock therapy." She
would be subsidized so that she could leave home and go
to a resident college, which is not otherwise used during the
summer. Or she could go to a metropolitan center on an
equally intensive basis, five days a week for six or eight
weeks during the summer, with a day camp provided for
the children.
Assume that this educational shock treatment awakens
able women to purposes requiring the equivalent of a fouryear college program for further professional training. That
college program could be completed in four years or less,
without full-time classroom attendance, by a combination
of these summer institutes, plus prescribed reading, papers,
and projects that could be done during the winter at home.
Courses taken on television or at local community colleges
and universities on an extension basis, could be combined
with tutorial conferences at midyear or every month. The
courses would be taken for credit, and the customary degrees would be earned. Some system of "equivalents"
would have to be worked out, not to give a woman credit
for work that does not meet requirements, but to give her

358

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

credit for truly serious work, even if it is done at times,
places, and in ways that violate conventional academic
standards.
A number of universities automatically bar housewives
by barring part-time undergraduate or graduate work. Perhaps they have been burned by dilettantes. But part-time
college work, graduate or undergraduate, geared to a serious plan, is the only kind of education that can prevent a
housewife from becoming a dilettante; it is the only way a
woman with husband and children can get, or continue, an
education. It could also be the most practical arrangement
from the university's point of view. With their facilities already overtaxed by population pressures, universities and
women alike would benefit from a study program that does
not require regular classroom attendance. While it makes
a great deal of sense for the University of Minnesota to
work out its excellent Plan for Women's Continuing Education'O in terms of the regular university facilities, such a
plan will not help the woman who must begin her education
all over again to find out what she wants to do. But existing facilities, in any institution, can be used to fill in the
gaps once a woman is under way on her life plan.
Colleges and universities also need a new life plan-to
become lifetime institutions for their students; offer them
guidance, take care of their records, and keep track of
their advanced work or refresher courses, no matter where
they are taken. How much greater that allegiance and financial support from their alumnae if, instead of the teaparties to raise funds and a sentimental reunion every fifth
June, a woman could look to her college for continuing education and guidance. Barnard alumnae can, and do, come
back and take, free, any course at any time, if they meet
the qualifications for it. All colleges could conduct summer institutes to keep alumnae abreast of developments in
their fields during the years of young motherhood. They
could accept part-time students and offer extension courses
for the housewife who could not attend classes regularly.
They could advise her on reading programs, papers, or
projects that could be done at home. They could also work
out a system whereby projects done by their alumnae in
education, mental health, sociology, political science in
their own communities could be counted as equivalent
credits to"'ard a degree. Instead of collecting dimes, let
women volunteers serve supervised professional appren-

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

359

ticeships and collect the credits that are recognized in lieu
of pay for medical internes. Similarly, when a woman has
taken courses at a number of different institutions, perhaps due to her husband's geographical itinerary, and has
earned her community credits from agency, hospital, library or laboratory, her college of origin, or some national
center set up by several colleges, could give her the orals,
the comprehensives, and the appropriate examinations for
a degree. The concept of "continuing education" is already
a reality for men in many fields. Why not for women?
Not education for careers instead of motherhood, not education for temporary careers before motherhood, not education to make them "better wives and mothers," but an
education they will use as full members of society.
"But how many American women really want to do
more with their lives?" the cynic asks. A fantastic number
of New Jersey housewives responded to an offer of intensive retraining in mathematics for former college women
willing to commit themselves to becoming mathematics
teachers. In January, 1962, a simple news story in the New
York Times announced that Sarah Lawrence's Esther
Raushenbush had obtained a grant to help mature women
finish their education or work for graduate degrees on a
part-time basis that could be fitted in with their obligations as mothers. The response literally put the small Sarah
Lawrence switchboard out of commission. Within twentyfour hours, Mrs. Raushenbush had taken over 100 telephone calls. "It was like bank night," the operator said.
"As if they had to get in there right away; or they might
miss the chance." Interviewing the women who applied for
the program, Mrs. Raushenbush, like Virginia Senders at
Minnesota, was convinced of the reality of their need. They
were not "neurotically rejecting" their husbands and children; they did not need psychotherapy, but they did need
more education-in a hurry-and in a form they could get
without neglecting their husbands and families.
Education and re-education of American women for a
serious purpose cannot be effected by one or two farsighted institutions; it must be accomplished on a much
wider scale. And no one serves this end who repeats, even
for expedience or tact, the cliches of the feminine mystique. It is quite wrong to say, as some of the leading women educators are saying today, that women must of course
use their education, but not, heaven forbid, in careers that

360

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

will compete with men. l l When women take their education and their abilities seriously and put them to use, ultimately they have to compete with men. It is better for a
woman to compete impersonally in society, as men do,
than to compete for dominance in her own home with her
husband, compete with her neighbors for empty status, and
so smother her son that he cannot compete at all. Consider
this recent news item about America's latest occupatio.ll8l
therapy for the pent-up feminine need to compete:

\\

It is a typical weekday in Dallas. Daddy is at work.
Baby is having his morning nap. In an adjoining room,
Brother (age 3) is riding a new rocking horse and Sis (5)
is watching TV cartoons. And Mommy? Mommy is just
a few feet away, crouching over the foul line on Lane
53, her hip twisted sharply to the left to steer the bluewhite-marbled ball into the strike pocket between the
one and three pins. Mommy is bowling. Whether in Dallas or Cleveland or Albuquerque or Spokane, energetic
housewives have dropped dustcIoth and vacuum and
hauled the children off to the new alleys, where fulltime
nurses stand ready to babysit in the fully equipped nurseries.
Said the manager of Albuquerque's Bowl-a-Drome:
"Where else can a woman compete after she gets married? They need competition just like men do . . • . It
sure beats going home to do the dishes!"12

It is perhaps beside the point to remark that bowling
alleys and supermarkets have nursery facilities, while
schools and colleges and scientific laboratories and government offices do not. But it is very much to the point to
say that if an able American woman does not use her hu. man energy and ability in some meaningful pursuit (which
necessarily means competition, for there is competition in
every serious pursuit of our society), she will fritter away
her energy in neurotic symptoms, or unproductive exercise,
or destructive "love."
It also is time to stop giving lip service to the idea that
there are no battles left to be fought for women in America, that women's rights have already been won. It is ridiculous to tell girls to keep quiet when they enter a new field,
or an old one, so the men will not notice they are there. In
almost every professional field, in business and in the arts

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

361

and sciences, women are still treated as second-class citizens. It would be a great service to tell girls who plan to
work in society to expect this subtle, uncomfortable discrimination-tell them not to be quiet, and hope it will go
away, but fight it. A girl should not expect special privileges because of her sex, but neither should she "adjust" to
prejudice and discrimination.
She must learn to compete then, not as a woman, but as
a human being. Not until a great many women move out of
the fringes into the mainstream will society itself provide
the arrangements for their new life plan. But every girl who
manages to stick it out through law school or medical
school, who finishes her M.A. or Ph.D. and goes on to use
it, helps others move on. Every woman who fights the remaining barriers to full equality which are masked by the
feminine mystique makes it easier for the next woman. The
very existence of the President's Commission on the Status
of Women, under Eleanor Roosevelt's leadership, creates
a climate where it is possible to recognize and do something about discrimination against women, in terms not only of pay but of the subtle barriers to opportunity. Even in
politics, women must make their contribution not as
"housewives" but as citizens. It is, perhaps, a step in the
right direction when a woman protests nuclear testing under
the banner of "Women Strike for Peace." But why does
the professional illustrator who heads the movement say
she is "just a housewife," and her followers insist that once
the testing stops, they will stay happily at home with their
children? Even in the city strongholds of the big political
party machines, women can-and are beginning to--change
the insidious unwritten rules which let them do the political
housework while the men make the decisions. 13
When enough women make life plans geared to their real
abilities, and speak out for maternity leaves or even maternity sabbaticals, professionally run nurseries, and the
other changes in the rules that may be necessary, they will
not have to sacrifice the right to honorable competition
and contribution any more than they will have to sacrifice
marriage and motherhood. It is wrong to keep spelling out
unnecessary choices that make women unconsciously resist
either commitment or motherhood 14-and that hold back
recognition of the needed social changes. It is not a question of women having their cake and eating it, too. A woman is handicapped by her sex, and handicaps society, either

362

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

by slavishly copying the pattern of man's advance in the
professions, or by refusing to compete with man at all. But
with the vision to make a new life plan of her own, she
can fulfill a commitment to profession and politics, and to
marriage and motherhood with equal seriousness.
Women who have done this, in spite of the dire warnings of the feminine mystique, are in a sense "mutations,"
the image of what the American woman can be. When they
did not or could not work full time for a living, they spent
part-time hours on work which truly interested them. Because time was of the essence, they often skipped the timewasting, self-serving details of both housewifery and professional busywork.
Whether they knew it or not, they were following a life
plan. They had their babies before or after internship, between fellowships. If good full-time help was not available
in the children's early years, they gave up their jobs and
took a part-time post that may not have paid handsomely,
but kept them moving ahead in their profession. The teachers innovated in PTA, and substituted; the doctors took
clinical or research jobs close to home; the editors and
writers started free-lancing. Even if the money they made
was not needed for groceries or household help (and usually it was), they earned tangible proof of their ability to
contribute. They did not consider themselves "lucky" to be
housewives; they competed in society. They knew that marriage and motherhood are an essential part of life, but not
the whole of it.
These "mutations" suffered-and surmounted-the "cultural discontinuity in role conditioning," the "role crisis"
and the identity crisis. They had problems, of course, tough
ones-juggling their pregnancies, finding nurses and housekeepers, having to give up good assignments when their husbands were transferred. They also had to take a lot of hostility from other women-and many had to live with the
active resentment of their husbands. And, because of the
mystique, many suffered unnecessary pains of guilt. It took,
and still takes, extraordinary strength of purpose for women to pursue-their own life plans when society does not expect it of them. However, unlike the trapped housewives
whose problems multiply with the years, these women
solved their problems and moved on. They resisted the
mass persuasions and manipUlations, and did not give up
their own, often painful, values for the comforts of con-

A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN

363

formity. They did not retreat into privatism, but met the
challenges of the real world. And they know quite surely
now who they are.
They were doing, perhaps without seeing it clearly, what
every man and woman must do now to keep up with the
increasingly explosive pace of history, and find or keep individual identity in our mass society. The identity crisis in
men and women cannot be solved by one generation for
the next; in our rapidly changing society, it must be faced
continually, solved only to be faced again in the span of a
single lifetime. A life plan must be open to change, as new
possibilities open, in society and in oneself. No woman in
America today who starts her search for identity can be
sure where it will take her. No woman starts that search
today without struggle, conflict, and taking her courage in
her hands. But the women I met, who were moving on that
unknown road, did not regret the pains, the efforts, the
risks.
In the light of woman's long battle for emancipation, the
recent sexual counterrevolution in America has been perhaps a final crisis, a s.trange breath-holding interval before
the larva breaks out of the shell into maturity-a moratorium during which many millions of women put themselves
on ice and stopped growing. They say that one day science
will be able to make the human body live longer by freezing its growth. American women lately have been living
much longer than men-walking through their leftover lives
like living dead women. Perhaps men may live longer in
America when women carry more of the burden of the
battle with the world instead of being a burden themselves.
I think their wasted energy will continue to be destructive to their husbands, to their children, and to themselves
until it its used in their own battle with the world. But when
women as well as men emerge from biological living to realize their human selves, those leftover halves of life may
become their years of greatest fulfillment.'"
Then the split in the image wiIl be healed, and daughters
will not face that jumping-off point at twenty-one or fortyone. When their mothers' fulfillment makes girls sure they
want to be women, they will not have to "beat themselves
down" to be feminine; they can stretch and stretch until
their own efforts will tell them who they are. They will not
need the regard of boy or man to feel alive. And when
women do not need to live through their husbands and chil-

364

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

dren, men will not fear the love and strength of women,
nor need another's weakness to prove their own masculinity. They can finally see each other as they are. And this
may be the next step in human evolution.
Who knows what women can be when they are finally
free to become themselves? Who knows what women's intelligence will contribute when it can be nourished without
denying love? Who knows of the possibilities of love when
men and women share not only children, home, and garden, not only the fulfillment of their biological roles, but
the responsibilities and passions of the work that creates
the human future and the full human knowledge of who
they are? It has barely begun, the search of women for
themselves. But the time is at hand when the voices of the
feminine mystique can no longer drown out the inner voice
that is driving women on to become complete.

EPILOGUE
WHEN The Feminine Mystique WAS AT THE PRINTer's, and my last child was in school all day, I decided I
would go back to school myself and get my Ph.D. Armed
with my publisher's announcement, a copy of my summa
cum laude undergraduate degree and twenty-years-back
graduate record, and the New World Foundation report
of the educational project I had dreamed up and run in
Rockland County, I went to see the head of the social psychology department at Columbia. He was very tolerant
and kind, but surely, at forty-two, after all those undisciplined years as a housewife, I must understand that I
wouldn't be able to meet the rigors of full-time graduate
study for a Ph.D. and the mastery of statistics that was required. "But I used statistics throughout the book," I
pointed out. He looked blank. "Well, my dear," he said,
"what do you want to bother your head getting a Ph.D.
for, anyhow?"
I began to get letters from other women who now saw
through the feminine mystique, who wanted to stop doing
their children's homework and start doing their own; they
were also being tO,ld they really weren't capable of doing
anything else now but making homemade strawberry jam
or helping their children do fourth-grade arithmetic. It
wasn't enough just to take yourself seriously as a person.
Society had to change, somehow, for women to make it as
people. It wasn't possible to live any longer as "just a
housewife." But what other way was there to live?
I remember getting stuck at that point, even when I was
writing The Feminine Mystique. I had to write a last
chapter, giving a solution to "the problem that has no
name," suggesting new patterns, a way out of the conflicts, whereby women could use their abilities fully in society and find their own existential human identity, shar-

366

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ing its action, decisions, and challenges without at the
same time renouncing home, children, love, their own sexuality. My mind went blank. You do have to say "no" to
the old way before you can begin to find the new "yes"
you need. Giving a name to the problem that had no
name was the necessary first step. But it wasn't enough.
Personally, I couldn't operate as a suburban housewife
any longer, even if I had wanted to. For one thing, I became a leper in my own suburb. As long as I only wrote
occasional articles most people never read, the fact that I
wrote during the hours when the children were in school
was no more a stigma than, for instance, solitary morning
drinking. But now that I was acting like a real writer and
even being interviewed on television, the sin was too public, it could not be condoned. Women in other suburbs
were writing me letters as if I were Joan of Are, but I
practically had to flee my own crabgrass-overgrown yard
to keep from being burned at the stake. Although we had
been fairly popular, my husband and I were suddenly no
longer invited to our neighbors' dinner parties. My kids
were kicked out of the car pool for art and dancing
classes. The other mothers had a fit when I now called a
cab when it was my turn, instead of driving the children
myself. We had to move back to the city, where the kids
could do their own thing without my chauffeuring and
where I could be with them at home during some of the
hours I now spent commuting. I couldn't stand being a
freak alone in the suburbs any longer.
At first, that strange hostility my book-and later the
movement-seemed to elicit from some women amazed
and puzzled me. Even in the beginning, there wasn't the
hostility I had expected from men. Many men bought The
Feminine Mystique for their wives and urged them to go
back to school or to work. I realized soon enough that
there were probably millions of women who had felt as I
had, like a freak, absolutely alone, as a suburban housewife. But if you were afraid to face your real feelings
about the husband and children you were presumably living for, then someone like me opening up the can of
worms was a menace.
I didn't blame women for being scared. I was pretty
scared myself. It isn't really possible to make a new pattern of life all by yourself. I've always dreaded being

EPILOGUE

367

alone more than anything else. The anger I had not dared
to face in myself during all the years I tried to play the
helpless little housewife with my husband-and feeling
more helpless the longer I played it-was beginning to
erupt now, more and more violently. For fear of being
alone, I almost lost my own self-respect trying to hold on
to a marriage that was based no longer on love but on dependent hate. It was easier for me to start the women's
movement which was needed to change society than to
change my own personal life.
~t seemed time to start writing that second book, but I
couldn't find any new patterns in society beyond the feminine mystique. I could find a few individual women,
knocking themselves out to meet Good Housekeeping
standards, trying to raise Spockian children while working
at a full-time job and feeling guilty about it. And conferences were being held about the availability of continuing
education for women, because all those aging full-time
housewife-mothers, whose babies were now in college,
were beginning to be trouble-drinking, taking too many
pills, committing suicide. Whole learned journals were devoted to the discussion of "women and their options"the "stages" of women's lives. Women, we were told,
could go to school, work a bit, get married, stay with the
children fifteen to twenty years, and then go back to
school and work-no problem; no need for role conflicts.
The women who were advancing this theory were
among the exceptional few to reach top jobs because they
somehow had not dropped out for fifteen or twenty years.
And these same women were advising the women flocking
back to their continuing-education programs that they
couldn't really expect to get real jobs or professional training after fifteen years at home; ceramics, or professional
volunteer work-that was the realistic adjustment.
Talk, that's all it was, talk. In 1965, the long awaited
report of the President's Commission on the Status of
Women detailed the discriminatory wages women were
earning (half the average for men), and the declining ratio of women in professional and executive jobs. The
Commission recommended that women be counseled to
use their abilities in society, and suggested that child-care
centers and other services be provided to enable women to
combine motherhood and work. But Margaret Mead, in

368

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

her introduction to. the report, said, in effect, If women
are all going to want to make big decisions and discoveries, who is going to stay home and bandage the child's
knee or listen to the husband's troubles? (No matter that,
with her husband's help and even before her child's knees
were in school all day, she herself was making big anthropological discoveries and decisions. Perhaps women who
have made it as "exceptional" women don't really identify
with other women. For them; there are three classes of
people: men, other women, and themselves; their very
status as exceptional women depends on keeping other
women quiet, and not rocking the boat.)
The President's Commission report was duly buried in
bureaucratic file drawers. That summer of 1965, I got a
third of the way through the book I wanted to write about
going beyond the feminine mystique; by then I knew that
there weren't any new patterns, only new problems that
women weren't going to be able to solve unless society
changed. And all the talk, and the reports, and the Commission, and the continuing-education programs were only
examples of tokenism-maybe even an attempt to block a
real movement on the part of women themselves to
change society.
It seemed to me that something more than talk had to
happen. "The only thing that's changed so far is our own
consciousness," I wrote, closing that second book, which I
never finished, because the next sentence read, "What we
need is a political movement, a social movement like that
of the blacks." I had to take action. On the plane to
Washington, pondering what to do, I saw a student reading a book, The First Step to Revolution Is Consciousness,
and it was like an omen.
I went to Washington because a law had been passed,
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, banning sex
discrimination in employment along with race discrimination. The sex discrimination part had been tacked on as a
joke and a delaying maneuver by a southern congressman,
Howard Smith of Virginia. At the first press conferences
after the law went into effect, the administrator in charge
of enforcing it joked about the ban on sex discrimination.
"It will give men equal opportunity to be Playboy bunnies," he said.
In Washington I found a seething underground of

EPILOGUE

369

women in the government, the press, and the labor unions
who felt powerless to stop the sabotage of this law that
was supposed to break through the sex discrimination that
pervaded every industry and profession, every factory,
school, and office. Some of these women felt that I, as a
now known writer, could get the public's ear.
One day, a cool young woman lawyer, who worked for
the agency that was not enforcing the law against sex
discrimination, carefully closed the door of her office and
said to me with tears in her eyes, "I never meant to be so
concerned about women. 1 like men. But I'm getting an
ulcer, the way women are being betrayed. We may never
have another chance like this law again. Betty, you have
to start an NAACP for women. You are the only one free
enough to do it."
1 wasn't an organization woman. 1 never even belonged
to the League of Women Voters. However, there was a
meeting of state commissioners on the status of women in
Washington in June. 1 thought that, among the women
there from the various states, we would get the nucleus of
an organization that could at least call a press conference
and raise the alarm among women throughout the country.
Pauli Murray, an eminent black lawyer, came to that
meeting, and Dorothy Haener and Caroline Davis from
the UAW, and Kay Clarenbach, head of the Governor's
Commission in Wisconsin, and Katherine Conroy of the
Communications Workers of America, and Aileen Hernandez, then a member of the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission. 1 asked them to come to my hotel
room one night. Most didn't think women needed a movement like the blacks, but everyone was mad at the sabotage of Title VII. The consensus was that the conference could surely take respectable action to insist that the
law be enforced.
1 went to bed relieved that probably a movement
wouldn't have to be organized. At six the next morning, 1
got a call from one of the top token women in the Johnson administration, urging me not to rock the boat. At
eight the phone rang again; this time it was one of the reluctant sisters of the night before, angry now, really angry. "We've been told that this conference doesn't have
the power to take any action at all, or even the right to

370

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

offer a resolution. So we've got a table for us all to eat together at lunch, and we'll start the organization." At the
luncheon we each chipped in a dollar. I wrote the word
"NOW" on a paper napkin; our group should be called
the National Organization for Women, I said, "because
men should be part of it." Then I wrote down the first
sentence of the NOW statement of purpose, committing
ourselves to "take action to bring women into full participation in the mainstream of American society now, exercising all the privileges and responsibilities thereof, in
truly equal partnership with men."
The changes necessary to bring about that equality
were, and still are, very revolutionary indeed. They involve a sex-role revolution for men and women which
will restructure all our institutions: child rearing, education, marriage, the family, the architecture of the home,
the practice of medicine, work, politics, the economy, religion, psychological theory, human sexuality, morality, and
the very evolution of the race.
I now see the women's movement for equality as simply
the necessary first stage of a much larger sex-role revolution. I never did see it in terms of class or race: women,
as an oppressed class, fighting to overthrow or take power
away from men as a class, the oppressors. I knew the
movement had to include men as equal members, though
women would have to take the lead in the first stage.
There is only one way for women to reach full human
potential-by participating in the mainstream of society,
by exercising their own voice in all the decisions shaping
that society. For women to have full identity and freedom, they must have economic independence. Breaking
through the barriers that had kept them from the jobs and
professions, rewarded by society was the first step, but it
wasn't sufficient. It would be necessary to change the rules
of the game to restructure professions, marriage, the
family, the home. The manner in which offices and hospitals are structured, along the rigid, separate, unequal, unbridgeable lines of secretary/executive, nurse/ doctor, embodies and perpetuates the feminine mystique. But the
economic part would never be complete unless a dollar
value was somehow put on the work done by women in
the home, at least in terms of social security, pensions, retirement pay. And housework and child rearing would

EPILOGUE

371

have to be more equally shared by husband, wife, and society.
Equality and human dignity are not possible for women
if they are not able to earn. When the young radical kids
came into the movement, they said it was "boring" or "reformist" or "capitalist co-option" to place so much emphasis on jobs and education. But very few women can afford to ignore the elementary economic facts of life. Only
economic independence can free a woman to marry for
love, not for status or financial support, or to leave a loveless, intolerable, humiliating marriage, or to eat, dress,
rest, and move if she plans not to marry. But the importance of work for women goes beyond economics. How
else can women participate in the action and decisions of
an advanced industrial society unless they have the training and opportunity and skills that come from participating in it?
Women also had to confront their sexual nature, not
deny or ignore it as earlier feminists had done. Society
had to be restructured so that women, who happen to be
the people who give birth, could make a human, responsible choice whether or not-and when-to have children,
and not be barred thereby from participating in society in
their own right. This meant the right to birth control and
safe abortion; the right to maternity leave and child-care
centers if women did not want to retreat completely from
adult society during the childbearing years; and the equivalent of a GI bill for retraining if women chose to stay
home with the children. For it seemed to me that most women would still choose to have children, though not so many
if child rearing was no longer their only road to status and
economic support-a vicarious participation in life.
I couldn't define "liberation" for women in terms that
denied the sexual and human reality of our need to love,
and even sometimes to depend upon, a man. What had to
be changed was the obsolete feminine and masculine sex
roles that dehumanized sex, making it almost impossible
for women and men to make love, not war. How could
we ever really know or love each other as long as we
played those roles that kept us from knowing or being
ourselves? Weren't men as well as women still locked in
lonely isolation, alienation, no matter how many sexual
acrobatics they put their bodies through? Weren't men

372

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

dying too young, suppressing fears and tears and their
own tenderness? It seemed to me that men weren't really
the enemy-they were fellow victims, suffering from an
outmoded masculine mystique that made them feel unnecessarily inadequate when there were no bears to kill.
In these past years of action, I have seen myself and
other women becoming both stronger and more gentle,
taking ourselves more seriously, yet beginning to really
have fun as we stopped playing the old roles. We discovered we could trust each other. I love the women with
whom I took the adventurous and joyous actions of these
years. No one realized how pitifully few we were in the
beginning, how little money we had, how little experience.
What gave us the strength and the nerve to do what we
did, in the name of American women, of women of the
world? It was, of course, because we were doing it for
ourselves. It was not charity for poor others; we, the middle-class women who started this, were all poor, in a sense
that goes beyond dollars. It was hard even for housewives
whose husbands weren't poor to get money to fly to board
meetings of NOW. It was hard for women who worked to
get time off from their jobs, or take precious weekend
time from their families. I have never worked so hard for
money, gone so many hours with so little sleep or time off
to eat or even go to the toilet, as in these first years of the
women's movement.
I was subpoenaed on Christmas Eve, 1966, to testify
before a judge in Foley Square, because the airlines were
outraged at our insistence that they were guilty of sex
discrimination by forcing stewardesses to resign at age
thirty or upon their marriage. (Why, I had wondered, are
they going to such lengths? Surely they don't think men
ride the airlines because stewardesses are nubile. And then
I realized how much money the airlines saved by firing
those pretty stewardesses before they had time to accumulate pay increases, vacation time, and pension rights. And
how I love it now when stewardesses hug me on an airplane and tell me they are not only married and over
thirty, but can even have children and keep flying!)
I felt a certain urgency of history, that we would be
failing the generation coming up if we evaded the question of abortion now. I also felt we had to get the Equal
Rights Amendment added to the Constitution despite the

EPILOGUE

373

claim of union leaders that it would end "protective" laws
for women. We had to take the torch of equality from the
lonely, bitter old women who had been fighting all alone
for the amendment, which had been bottled up in Congress for nearly fifty years since women had chained
themselves to the White House fence to get the vote.
On our first picket line at the White House fence
("Rights Not Roses") on Mother's Day in 1967, we threw
away chains of aprons, flowers, and mock typewriters. We
dumped bundles of newspapers onto the floor of the
Equal Employment Opportunities Commission in protest
against its refusal to enforce the Civil Rights law against
sex-segregated "Help Wanted: Male" ads (for the good
jobs) and "Help Wanted: Female" ads (for gal Fridaytype jobs). This was supposed to be just as illegal now as
ads reading "Help Wanted: White" and "Help Wanted:
Colored." We announced we were going to sue the federal government for not enforcing the law equally on behalf
of women (and then called members of our underground
in the Justice Department to see if one could do that)and we did.
I gave lectures in southern finishing schools and commencement addresses at out-of-the-way colleges of home
economics-as well as Yale, UCLA, and Harvard-to pay
my way in organizing NOW chapters (we never did have
money for an organizing staff). Our only real office in
those years was my apartment. It wasn't possible to keep
up with the mail. But when women like Wilma Heide
from Pittsburgh, or Karen De Crow in Syracuse, Eliza
Paschall in Atlanta, Jacqui Ceballos-so many otherswere so determined to have NOW chapters that they
called long distance when we didn't answer their letters,
the only thing to do was to have them become local NOW
organizers.
I remember so many way stations: Going to lunch at
the for-men-only Oak Room at the Plaza Hotel with fifty
NOW women and demanding to be served. . . Testifying
before the Senate against the nomination to the Supreme
Court of a sexist judge named Carswell who refused to
hear a case of a woman who was fired because she had
preschool children . . . Seeing the first sign of a woman's
underground in the student movement, when I was asked
to lead a rap session at the National Student Congress in

374

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

College Park, Maryland, in 1968 . . . After a resolution
for the liberation of women from the mimeograph machines was laughed down at the SDS convention, hearing
the young radical women telling me they had to have a
separate women's-lib group-because if they really spoke
out at SDS meetings, they might not get married . . .
Helping Sheila Tobias plan the Cornell intersession on
women in 1968, which started the first women's-studies
programs (how many universities have them now!) . . .
Persuading the NOW board that we should hold a Congress to Unite Women with the young radicals despite differences in ideology and style . . . So many way stations.
I admired the flair of the young radicals when they got
off the rhetoric of sex/class warfare and conducted actions like picketing the Miss America beauty contest in
Atlantic City. But the media began to publicize, in more
and more sensational terms, the more exhibitionist, downwith-men, down-with-marriage, down-with-childbearing
rhetoric and actions. Those who preached the man-hating
sex/class warfare threatened to take over the New York
NOW and the national NOW and drive out the women
who wanted equality but who also wanted to keep on loving their husbands and children. Kate MilleU's Sexual
Politics was hailed as the ideology of sex/ class warfare by
those who claimed to be the radicals of the women's
movement. After the man-hating faction broke up the second Congress to Unite Women with hate talk, and even
violence, I heard a young radical say, "If I were an agent
of the CIA and wanted to disrupt this movement, that's
just what I would do."
By 1970, it was beginning to be clear that the women's
movement was more than a temporary fad, it was the
fastest-growing movement for basic social and political
change of the decade. The black movement had been
taken over by extremists; the student movement was immobilized by its fetish for leaderless structure and by the
growing alienation from extremist hate rhetoric. Someone
was trying to take over our movement, too--or to stop it,
immobilize it, splinter it-under the guise of radical rhetoric and a similar fetish against leadership and structure.
"It's fruitless to speculate whether they are CIA agents, or
sick, or on a private power trip, or just plain stupid," a

EPILOGUE

375

black leader warned me. "If they continually disrupt, you
simply have to fight them."
It seemed to me the women's movement had to get out
of sexual politics. I thought it was a joke at first--those
strangely humorless papers about clitoral orgasms that
would liberate women from sexual dependence on a man's
penis-, and the "consciousness-raising" talk that women
should insist now on being on top in bed with men. Then
I realized, as Simone de Beauvoir once wrote, that these
women were in part acting out sexually their rebellion and
resentment at being "underneath" in society generally,
being dependent on men for their personal definition. But
their resentment was being manipulated into an orgy of
sex hatred that would vitiate the power they now had to
change the conditions they resented. I'm not sure what
motivates those who viciously promulgate, or manipulate,
man hate in the women's movement. Some of the disrupters seemed to come from extreme left groups, some
seemed to be using the women's movement to proselytize
lesbianism, others seemed to be honestly articulating the
legitimate and too-long-buried rage of women into a
rhetoric of sex! class warfare, which I consider to be based
on a false analogy with obsolete or irrelevant ideologies of
class warfare or race separatism. The man-haters were
given publicity far out of proportion to their numbers in
the movement because of the media's hunger for sensationalism. Many women in the movement go through a
temporary period of great hostility to men when they first
become conscious of their situation; when they start acting
to change their situation, they outgrow what I call
pseudo-radical infantilism. But that man-hating rhetoric
increasingly disturbs most women in the movement, in addition to keeping many women out of the movement.
On the plane to Chicago, preparing to bow out as president of NOW, feeling powerless to fight the man-haters
openly and refusing to front for them, I suddenly knew
what had to be done. A woman from Florida had written
to remind me that August 26, 1970, was the fiftieth anniversary of the constitutional amendment giving women
the vote. We needed to call a national action-a strike of
women to call attention to the unfinished business of
equality: equal opportunity for jobs and education, the
right to abortion and child-care centers, the right to our

376

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

own share of political power. It would unite women again
in serious action-women who had never been near a
"women's lib" group. (NOW, the largest such group, and
the only one with a national structure, had only 3,000
members in thirty cities in 1970.) I remember that, to
transmit this new vision to the NOW convention in Chicago, warning of the dangers of aborting the women's
movement, I spoke for nearly two hours and got a standing ovation. The grass-roots strength of NOW went into
organizing the August 26 strike. In New York, women
filled the temporary headquarters volunteering to do anything and everything; they hardly went home at night.
Mayor Lindsay wouldn't close Fifth Avenue for our
march, and I remember starting that march with the hoofs
of policemen's horses trying to keep us confined to the
sidewalk. I remember looking back, jumping up to see
over marchers' heads. I never saw so many women; they
stretched back for so many blocks you couldn't see the
end. I locked one arm with my beloved Judge Dorothy
Kenyon (who, at eighty-two, insisted on walking with me
instead of riding in the car we had provided for her), and
the other arm with a young woman on the other side. I
said to the others in the front ranks, "Lock arms, sidewalk
to sidewalk!" We overflowed till we filled the whole of
Fifth Avenue. There were so many of us they couldn't
stop us; they didn't even try. It was, as they say, the first
great nationwide action of women (hundreds of men also
marched with us) since women won the vote itself fifty
years before. Reporters who had joked about the "braburners" wrote that they had never seen such beautiful
women as the proud, joyous marchers who joined together
that day. For all women were beautiful on that day.
On August 26, it suddenly became both political and
glamorous to be a feminist. At first, politics had seemed to
be something altogether separate from what we were
doing in the women's movement. The regular politicians-right, left, center; RepUblican, Democrat, splinter--certainly weren't interested in women. In 1968, I had
testified in vain at the conventions of both political parties, trying to get a single word about women in either the
Republican or Democratic platform. When Eugene
McCarthy, the chief sponsor of the Equal Rights Amend-

EPILOGUE

377

ment, announced that he was going to run for president to
end the Vietnam war, I began to connect my own politics,
at least, to the women's drive for equality. I called Bella
Abzug and asked how I could work for McCarthy. But
not even the other women working for him thought
women's issues were relevant politically, and many NOW
members were critical of me for campaigning openly for
McCarthy.
At the 1970 NOW convention in Chicago, I said we
had a human responsibility as women to end the Vietnam
war. Neither men nor women should be drafted to fight
an obscene, immoral war like the one in Vietnam, but we
had to take equal responsibility for ending it. Two years
earlier, in 1968, standing outside the Conrad Hilton Hotel
in Chicago at the Democratic National Convention, I had
watched helmeted troopers clubbing down the long-haired
young, my own son among them. I began to see that these
young men, saying they didn't have to napalm all the children in Vietnam and Cambodia to prove they were men,
were defying the masculine mystique as we had defied the
feminine one. Those young men, and their elders like
them, were the other half of what we were doing.
And during that summer of 1970, I started trying to organize a woman's political caucus; later, it stuck together
enough to get Bella Abzug elected to Congress. She and
Gloria Stein em joined me as conveners of our August 26
Women's Strike for Equality march. So many women who
had been afraid before joined our march that day; we,
and the world, suddenly realized the possibilities of
women's political power. This power was first tested in the
summer of 1972 in Miami when, for the first time,
women played a major role in the political conventions.
Although inexperienced caucus leaders may have been too
easily co-opted by Nixon or McGovern, or infiltrated by
Watergate agents, they brought change to the political
arena. They won commitments from both parties on childcare, preschool, and after-school programs. And Shirley
Chisholm stayed in the Democratic race right to the end.
By 1976, I predict, even the Republicans will have a
woman running seriously for vice-president, if not for
president.
And so most of the agenda of Stage 1 of the sex-role
revolution-which is how I now see the women's move-

I

378

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

ment for equality-have been accomplished, or are in the
process of being resolved. The Equal Rights Amendment
was approved by Congress with hardly a murmur in either
house after we organized the National Women's Political
Caucus. The amendment's main opponent, Emanuel Celler, has been retired from Congress by one of the many
new young women who, these days, are running for office
instead of looking up Zip Codes. The Supreme Court has
ruled that no state can deny a woman her right to choose
childbirth or abortion. Over 1,000 lawsuits have been filed
forcing universities and corporations to take affirmative action to end sex discrimination and the other conditions
that keep women from getting top jobs. The American
Telephone and Telegraph Company has been ordered to
pay $15 million in reparations to women who didn't even
apply for jobs better than telephone operator before because such jobs weren't open to women. Every professional association, newspaper office, television station,
church, company, hospital, and school in almost every
city has a women's caucus or a group taking action on the
concrete conditions that keep women down.
Lately, I've been asked to lead consciousness-raising
sessions for the men who plan the training of guidance
counselors in New York and Minnesota, priests in Missouri, the Air Force Academy in Colorado, and even investment bankers. (I've also organized the First Women's
Bank & Trust Company to help women get control of
their own money and use their economic power.) The
State Department has said that women can't be fired from
the Foreign Service just because they are married and
that secretaries can't be told to go for coffee. Women are
beginning to change the very practice of medicine by establishing self-help clinics that enable women to take active responsibility for their own bodies. Psychoanalytic
conferences ask me, and other movement women, to help
them change their definition of feminine and masculine.
Women are being ordained as ministers and rabbis and
deacons, though the Pope says they still can't say Mass.
And the nuns and priests whose ecumenical rebellion is on
the front edge of the sex-role revolution are asking, "Is
God He?"
The women's movement is no longer just an American
possibility, I've been asked to help organize groups in

EPILOGUE

379

Italy, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Sweden, France, Israel,
Japan, India, and even in Czechoslovakia and other Socialist countries. I hope that by next year we'll have our
first world conference of feminists, perhaps in Sweden.
The United States Census Bureau reports a drastic decline in the birth rate, which I credit as much to women's
new aspirations as to The Pill. The women's movement is
strong enough now to bring out into the open real differences in ideology: I think my view of the sex-role revolution will emerge as the belief of those in the mainstream,
and the man-hating fringe will evaporate, having represented a temporary phase, or even a planned diversion. It
would be unrealistic, of course, not to expect forces
threatened by the women's movement to try to organize
or provoke a backlash-as they are doing now in many
states to prevent ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment. For example, women were given a week off by employers in Ohio, bused over the state line, and put up in
motels in an attempt to pressure the Kentucky legislature
to block the Equal Rights Amendment. But I remember
that the liquor companies spent millions of dollars to prevent ratification of women's right to vote in Tennessee
fifty years ago. And today who is financing the campaign
to stop the final act of the women's movement for equality? Not a conspiracy of men to keep women down;
rather, it is a conspiracy of those whose power, or profit,
rests on the manipulation of the fears and impotent rage
of passive women. Women-the last and largest group of
people in this nation to demand control of their own destiny-will change the very nature of political power in this
country.
In the decade since the publication of The Feminine
Mystique, the women's movement has changed my whole
life, too, no less powerfully or joyfully than the lives of
other women who stop to tell me about themselves. I
couldo't keep living my schizophrenic life: leading other
women out of the wilderness while holding on to a marriage that destroyed my self-respect. I finally found the
courage to get a divorce in May, 1969. I am less alone
now thao I ever was holding 00 to the false security of
my marriage. I think the next great issue for the women's
movement is basic reform of marriage and divorce.
My life still keeps changing, with Emily off to Radcliffe

380

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

this fall, Daniel getting his Ph.D. at Princeton, and Jonathan exploring new roads of his own. I've finished my first
stint as a visiting professor of sociology at Temple University, and I've written my own uncensored column for
McCall's. I've moved high into an airy, magic New York
tower, with open sky and river and bridges to the future
all around. I've started a weekend commune of grownups
for whom marriage hasn't worked-an extended family of
choice, whose members are now moving into new kinds of
marriages.
The more I've become myself-and the more strength,
support, and love I've somehow managed to take from,
and give to, other women in the movement-the more
joyous and real I feel loving a man. I've seen great relief
in women this year as I've spelled out my personal truth:
that the assumption of your own identity, equality, and
even political power does not mean you stop needing to
love, and be loved by, a man, or that you stop caring for
your kids. I would have lost my own feeling for the
women's movement if I had not been able, finally, to admit tenderness.
One mystical footnote: I used to be terribly afraid of
fiying. After I wrote The Feminine Mystique, I suddenly
stopped being afraid; now I fiy on jets across the ocean
and on one-engine air taxis in the hills of West Virginia. I
guess that, existentially, once you start really living your
life, and doing your work, and loving, you are not afraid
to die. Sometimes, when I realize how much fiying I do, I
think there's a possibility that I will die in an airplane
crash. But not for quite a while, I hope, because the
pieces of my own life as woman with man are coming together in a new pattern of human sex and human politics.
I now can write that new book.
I think the energy locked up in those obsolete masculine and feminine roles is the social equivalent of the
physical energy locked up in the realm of E= MC2-the
force that unleashed the holocaust of Hiroshima. I believe
the locked-up sexual energies have helped to fuel, more
than anyone realizes, the terrible violence erupting in the
nation and the world during these past ten years. If I am
right, the sex-role revolution will liberate these energies
from the service of death and will make it really possible
for men and women to "make love, not war."

NOTES
Chapter 1. THE PROBLEM THAT HAS NO NAME
1. See the Seventy-fifth Anniversary Issue of Good Housekeeping, May, 1960, ''The Gift of Self," a symposium by Margaret Mead, Jessamyn West, et al.
2. Lee Rainwater, Richard P. Coleman, and Gerald Handel,
Workingman's Wife, New York, 1959.
3. Betty Friedan, "If One Generation Can Ever Tell Another,"
Smith Alumnae Quarterly, Northampton, Mass., Winter,
1961. I first became aware of "the problem that has no
name" and its possible relationship to what I finally called
"the feminine mystique" in 1957, when I prepared an intensive questionnaire and conducted a survey of my own Smith
College classmates fifteen years after graduation. This questionnaire was later used by alumnae classes of Radcliffe and
other women's colleges with similar results.
.
4. Jhan and June Robbins, "Why Young Mothers Feel
Trapped," Redbook, September, 1960.
5. Marian Freda Poverman, "Alumnae on Parade," Barnard
Alumnae Magazine, July, 1957.
Chapter 2. THE HAPPY HOUSEWIFE HEROINE
1. Betty Friedan, "Women Are People Too!" Good Housekeeping, September, 1960. The letters received from women all
over the United States in response to this article were of
such emotional intensity that I was convinced that "the
problem that has no name" is by no means confined to the
graduates of the women's Ivy League colleges.
2. In the 1960's, an occasional heroine who was not a "happy
housewife" began to appear in the women's magazines. An
editor of McCall's explained it: "Sometimes we run an offbeat story for pure entertainment value." One such novelette, which was written to order by Noel Clad for Good
Housekeeping (January, 1960), is called "Men Against

382

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE
Women." The heroine-a happy career woman-nearly
loses child as well as husband.

Chapter 3. THE CRISIS IN WOMAN'S IDENTITY
1. Erik H. Erikson, Young Man Luther, A Study in Psychoanalysis and History, New York, 1958, pp. 15 fl. See also

Erikson, Childhood and Society, New York, 1950, and
Erikson, "The Problem of Ego Identity," Journal of the
American Psychoanalytical Association, Vol. 4, 1956, pp.
56-121.
Chapter 4. THE PASSIONATE JOURNEY

1. See Eleanor Flexner, Century of Struggle: The Woman's
Rights Movement in The United States, Cambridge, Mass.,
1959. This definitive history of the woman's rights movement in the United States, published in 1959 at the height
of the era of the feminine mystique, did not receive the attention it deserves, from either the intelligent reader or the
scholar. In my opinion, it should be required reading for every girl admitted to a U.S. college. One reason the mystique
prevails is that very few women under the age of forty
know the facts of the woman's rights movement. I am much
indebted to Miss Flexner for many factual clues I might
otherwise have missed in my attempt to get at the truth behind the feminine mystique and its monstrous image of the
feminists.
2. See Sidney Ditzion, Marriage, Morals and Sex in AmericaA History of Ideas, New York, 1953. This extensive bibliographical essay by the librarian of New York University
documents the continuous interrelationship between movements for social and sexual reform in America, and, specifically, between man's movement for greater self-realization
and sexual fulfillment and the woman's rights movement.
The speeches and tracts assembled reveal that the movement
to emancipate women was often seen by the men as well as
the women who led it in terms of "creating an equitable balance of power between the sexes" for "a more satisfying expression of sexuality for both sexes."
3. Ibid., p. 107.
4. Yuri Suhl, Ernestine L. Rose and the Battle for Human
Rights, New York, 1959, p. 158. A vivid account of the battle for a married woman's right to her own property and
earnings.
5. Flexner, op. cit., p. 30.
6. Elinor Rice Hays, Morning Star, A Biography of Lucy Slone,
New York, 1961, p. 83.

NOTES

383

7. Flexner, op. cit., p. 64.
8. Hays, op. cit., p. 136.
9. Ibid., p. 285.
10. Flexner, op. cit., p. 46.
11. Ibid., p. 73.
12. Hays, op. cit., p. 221.
13. Flexner, op. cit., p. 117.
14. Ibid., p. 235.
15. Ibid., p. 299.
16. Ibid., p. 173.
17. Ida Alexis Ross Wylie, "The Little Woman," Harper's
Magazine, November, 1945.
Chapter 5. THE SEXUAL SOLIPSISM OF
SIGMUND FREUD
1. Clara Thompson, Psychoanalysis: Evolution and Development, New York, 1950, pp. 131 II:

Freud not only emphasized the biological more than the cultural, but he also developed a cultural theory of his own based
on his biological theory. There were two obstacles in the way of
understanding the importance of the cultural phenomena he saw
and recorded. He was too deeply involved in developing his biological theories to give much thought to other aspects of the
data he collected. Thus he was interested chiefly in applying to
human society his theory of instincts. Starting with the assumption of a death instinct, for example, he then developed an explanation of the cultural phenomena he observed in terms of
the death instinct. Since he did not have the perspective to be
gained from knowledge of comparative cultures, he could not
evaluate cultural processes as such .... Much which Freud believed to be biological has been shown by modem research to
be a reaction to a certain type of culture and not characteristic
of universal human nature.
2. Richard La Piere, The Freudian Ethic, New York, 1959,
p.62.
3. Ernest Jones, The Life and Work of Sigmund Freud, New
York, 1953, Vol. I, p. 384.
4. Ibid., Vol. II (1955), p. 432.
5. Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 7-14, 294; Vol. II, p. 483.
6. Bruno Bettelheim, Love Is Not Enough: The Treatment of
Emotionally Disturbed Children, Glencoe, 111., 1950, pp. 7 II.
7. Ernest L. Freud, Letters of Sigmund Freud, New York,
1960, Letter 10, p. 27; Letter 26, p. 71; Letter 65, p. 145.
8. Ibid., Letter 74, p. 60; Letter 76, pp. 161 II.

384

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

9. Jones, op. cit.,Vol. I, pp. 176 f.
10. Ibid., Vol. II, p. 422.
11. Ibid., Vol. I, p. 271:
His descriptions or sexual activities are so matter-of-fact that
many readers have found them almost dry and totally lacking in
warmth. From all I know of him, I should say that he displayed
less than the average personal interest in what is often an absorbing topic. There was never any gusto or even savor in mentioning a sexual topic. . . . He always gave the impression of
being an unusually chaste person-the word "puritanical" would
not be out of place-and all we know of his early development
confirms this conception.
Ibid., Vol. I, p. 102.
Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 110 if.
Ibid., Vol. I, p. 124.
Ibid., Vol. I, p. 127.
Ibid., Vol. I, p. 138.
Ibid., Vol. I, p. 151.
18. Helen Walker Puner, Freud, His Life and His Mind, New
York, 1947, p. 152.
19. Jones, op. cit., Vol. II, p. 121.
20. Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 301 if. During the years Freud was germinating his sexual theory, before his own heroic selfanalysis freed him from a passionate dependence on a series
of men, his emotions were focused on a flamboyant noseand-throat doctor named Fliess. This is one coincidence of
history that was quite fateful for women. For Fliess had
proposed, and obtained Freud's lifelong allegiance to, a fantastic "scientific theory" which reduced all phenomena of
life and death to "bisexuality," expressed in mathematical
terms through a periodic table based on the number 28, the
female menstrual cycle. Freud looked forward to meetings
with Fliess "as for the satisfying of hunger and thirst." He
wrote him: "No one can replace the intercourse with a
friend that a particular, perhaps feminine side of me, demands." Even after his own self-analysis, Freud still expected to die on the eay predicted by Fliess' periodic table,
in which everything could be figured out in terms of the female number 28, or the male 23, which was derived from
the end of one female menstrual period to the beginning of
the next.
21. Ibid., Vol. I, p.320.
22. Sigmund Freud, "Degradation in Erotic Life," in The Collected Papers of Sigmund Freud, Vol. IV.
23. Thompson,op. cit., p. 133.
24. Sigmund Freud, "The Psychology of Women," in New In12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.

NOTES

385

troductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis, tr. by W. J. H.
Sprott, New York, 1933, pp. 170 f.
25. Ibid., p. 182.
26. Ibid., p. 184.
27. Thompson, op. cit., pp. 12 f:
The war of 1914-18 further focussed attention on ego drives.
. • . Another idea came into analysis around this period . . .
and that was that aggression as well as sex might be an important repressed impulse. . . . The puzzling problem was how to
include it in the theory of instincts. . . . Eventually Freud
solved this by his second instinct theory. Aggression found its,
place as part of the death instinct. It is interesting that normal
self-assertion, i.e., the impulse to master, control or come to
self-fulfilling terms with the environment, was not especially emphasized by Freud.
28. Sigmund Freud, "Anxiety and Instinctual Life," in New Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis, p. 149.
29. Marynia Farnham and Ferdinand Lundberg, Modern
Woman: The Lost Sex, New York and London, 1947, pp.
142 ff.
30. Ernest Jones, op. cit., Vol. II, p. 446.
31. Helene Deutsch, The Psychology oj Women-A PsychoanalyticalInterpretation, New York, 1944, Vol. I, pp. 224 ff.
32. Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 251 ff.
33. Sigmund Freud, "The Anatomy of the Mental Personality,"
in New Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis, p. 96.
Chapter 6. THE FUNCTIONAL FREEZE, THE
FEMININE PROTEST, AND
MARGARET MEAD

1. Henry A. Bowman, Marriage for Moderns, New York, 1942,
p.21.
2. Ibid., pp. 22 ff.
3. Ibid., pp. 62 ff.
4. Ibid., pp. 74-76.
5. Ibid., pp. 66 If.
6. Talcott Parsons, "Age and Sex in the Social Structure of the
United States," in Essays in Sociological Theory, Glencoe,
nl., 1949, pp. 223 ff.
7. Talcott Parsons, "An Analytical Approach to the Theory of
Social Stratification," op. cit., pp. 174 ff.
8. Mirra Komarovsky, Women in the Modern World, Their Education and Their Dilemmas, Boston, 1953, pp. 52-61.
9. Ibid., p. 66.
10. Ibid., pp. 72-74.

386

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

11. Mirra Komarovsky, "Functional Analysis of Sex Roles,"

American Sociological Review, August, 1950. See also "Cultural Contradictions and Sex Roles," American Journal oj
Sociology, November, 1946.
12. Kingsley Davis, "The Myth of Functional Analysis as a
Special Method in Sociology and Anthropology," American
Sociological Review, Vol. 24, No.6, Decemher, 1959, pp.
757-772. Davis points out that functionalism became more
or less identical with sociology itself. There is provocative
evidence that the very study of sociology, in recent years,
has persuaded college women to limit themselves to their
"functional" traditional sexual role. A report on "The Status
of Women in Professional Sociology" (Sylvia Fleis Fava,
American Sociological Review, Vol. 25, No.2, April, 1960)
shows that while ·m ost of the students in sociology undergraduate classes are women, from 1949 to 1958 there was a
sharp decline in both the number and proportion of degrees
in sociology awarded to women. (4,143 B.A.'s in 1949 down
to a low of 3,200 in 1955, 3,606 in 1958). And while onehalf to two-thirds of the undergraduate degrees in sociology
were awarded to women, women received only 25 to 43 per
cent of the masters' degrees, and only 8 to 19 per cent of
the Ph .D.'s. While the number of women earning graduate
degrees in all fields has declined sharply during the era of
the feminine mystique, the field of sociology showed, in
comparison to other fields, an unusually high "mortality"
rate.
13. Margaret Mead, Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive
Societies, New York, 1935, pp. 279 f.
14. Margaret Mead, From the South Seas, New York, 1939,
p. 321.
15. Margaret Mead, Male and Female, New York, 1955, pp.
16-18.
16. Ibid., p. 26.
17. Ibid., footnotes, pp. 289 f:
I did not begin to work seriously with the zones of the body until I went to the Arapesh in 1931. While I was generally familiar with Freud's basic work on the subject, I had not seen how
it might be applied in the field until I read Geza Roheim's first

field report, "Psychoanalysis of Primitive Culture Types" . . .
I then sent home for abstracts of K. Abraham'S work. After I

became acquainted with Erik Homburger Erikson's systematic
handling of these ideas, they became an integral part of my theoretical equipment.
18. Ibid., pp. 50 f.
19. Ibid., pp. 72 fr.

NOTES

387

20. Ibid., pp. 84 ff.
21. Ibid., p. 85
22. Ibid., pp. 125 ff.
23. Ibid., pp. 135 ff.
24. Ibid., pp. 274 ff.
25. Ibid., pp. 278 ff.
26. Ibid., pp. 276-285.
27. Margaret Mead, Introduction to From the South Seas, New
York, 1939, p. xiii. "It was no use permitting children to
develop values different from those of their society . . ."
28. Marie Jahoda and Joan Havel, "Psychological Problems of
Women in Different Social Roles-A Case History of Problem Formulation in Research," Educational Record, Vol. 36,
1955, pp. 325-333.
Chapter 7. THE SEX-DIRECTED EDUCATORS
1. Mabel Newcomer, A Century of Higher Education for
Women, New York, 1959, pp. 45 iI. The proportion of
women among college students in the U.S. increased from
21 per cent in 1870 to 47 per cent in 1920; it had declined
to 35.2 per cent in 1958. Five women's colleges had closed;
21 had become coeducational; 2 had become junior colleges.
In 1956, 3 out of 5 women in the coeducational colleges
were taking secretarial, nursing, home economics, or education courses. Less than lout of 10 doctorates were granted
to women, compared to 1 in 6 in 1920, 13 per cent in 1940.
Not since before World War I have the percentages of
American women receiving professional degrees been as
consistently low as in this period. The extent of the retrogression of American women can also be measured in
terms of their failure to develop to their own potential. According to Womanpower, of all the young women capable
of doing college work, only one out of four goes to college,
compared to one out of two men; only one out of 300
women capable of earning a Ph.D. actually does so, compared to one out of 30 men. If the present situation continues, American women may soon rank among the most
"backward" women in the world. The U.S. is probably the
only nation where the proportion of women gaining higher
education has decreased in the past 20 years; it has steadily
increased in Sweden, Britain, and France, as well as the
emerging nations of Asia and the communist countries. By
the 1950's, a larger proportion of French women were obtaining higher education than American women; the proportion of French women in the professions had more than
doubled in fifty years. The proportion of French women in

388

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the medical profession alone is five times that of American
women; 70% of the doctors in the Soviet Union are women,
compared to 5% in America. See Alva Myrdal and Viola
Klein, Women's Two Roles-Home and Work, London,
1956, pp. 33-64.
2. Mervin B. Freedman, "The Passage through College," in Personality Development DUring the College Years, ed. by Nevitt Sanford, lournal of Social Issues, Vol. XII, No.4, 1956,
pp. 15 f.
3. John Bushnel, "Student Culture at Vassar," in The American
College, ed. by Nevitt Sanford, New York and London,
1962, pp. 509 f.
4. Lynn White, Educating our Daughters, New York, 1950, pp.
18-48.
5. Ibid., p. 76.
6. Ibid., pp. 77 if.
7. Ibid., p. 79.
8. See Dael Wolfle, America's Resources of Specialized Talent,
New York, 1954.
9. Cited in an address by Judge Mary H. Donlon in proceedings
of "Conference on the Present Status and Prospective
Trends of Research on the Education of Women," 1957,
American Council on Education, Washington, D.C.
10. See "The Bright Girl: A Major Source of Untapped
Talent," Guidance Newsletter, Science Research Associates
Inc., Chicago, 111., May, 1959.
11. See DaeI WoHle, op. cit.
12. John Summerskill, "Dropouts from College," in The American College, p. 631.
13. Joseph M. Jones, "Does Overpopulation Mean Poverty?"
Center for International Economic Growth, Washington,
1962. See also United Nations Demographic Yearbook, New
York, 1960, pp. 580 if. By 1958, in the United States, more
gi rls were marrying from 15-19 years of age than from any
other age group. In all of the other advanced nations, and
many of the emerging underdeveloped nations, most girls
married from 20-24 or after 25. The U.S. pattern of teenage
marriage could only be found in countries like Paraguay,
Venezuela, Honduras, Guatemala, Mexico, Egypt, Iraq and
the Fiji Islands.
14. Nevitt Sanford, "Higher Education as a Social Problem" in
The American College, p. 23.
15. Elizabeth Douvan and Carol Kaye, "Motivational Factors in
College Entrance," in The American College, pp. 202-206.
16. Ibid., pp. 208 f.
17. Esther Lloyd-Jones, "Women Today and Their Education,"
Teachers' College Record, Vol. 57, No.1, October, 1955;

NOTES

389

and No.1, April, 1956. See also Opal David, The Education
of Women-Signs for the Future, American Council on Education, Washington, D.C., 1951.
18. Mary Ann Guitar, "College Marriage Courses--Fun or
Fraud?" Mademoiselle, February, 1961.
19. Helene Deutsch, op. cit., Vol. I, p. 290.
20. Mirra Komarovsky, op. cit., p. 10. Research studies indicate
that 40 per cent of college girls "play dumb" with men.
Since the ones who do not include those not excessively
overburdened with intelligence, the great majority of American girls who are gifted with high intelligence evidently
learn to hide it.
21. Jean Macfarlane and Lester Sontag, Research reported to
the Commission on the Education of Women, Washington,
D.C., 1954, (mimeo ms.).
22. Harold Webster, "Some Quantitative Results," in Personality
Development During the College Years, ed. by Nevitt Sanford, Journal of Social Issues, 1956, Vol. 12, No.4, p. 36.
23. Nevitt Sanford, Personality Development During the College
Years, Journal of Social Issues, 1956, Vol. 12, No.4.
24. Mervin B. Freedman, "Studies of College Alumni," in The
American College, p. 818.
25. Lynn White, op. cit., p. 111.
26. Ibid., pp. 119 f.
27. Max Lerner, America As a Civilization, New York, 1951,
pp. 608-611:
The crux of it lies neither in the biological nor economic disabilities of women but in their sense of being caught between a
man's world which they have no real will to achieve and a
world of their own in which they find it hard to be fulfilled.
. . . When Walt Whitman exhorted women "to give up toys
and fictions and launch forth, as men do, amid real, independent, stormy life," he was thinking-as were many of his contemporaries--of the wrong kind of equalitarianism. . . . If she
is to discover her identity, she must start by basing her belief in
herself on her womanliness rather than on the movement for
feminism. Margaret Mead has pointed out that the biological
life cycle of the woman has certain well-marked phases from
menarche through the birth of her children to her menopause;
that in these stages of her life cycle, as in her basic bodily
rhythms, she can feel secure in her womanhood and does not
have to assert her potency as the male does. Similarly, while the
multiple roles that she must play in life are bewildering, she can
fulfill them without distraction if she knows that her central role
is that of a woman. . . . Her central function, however, remains that of creating a life style for herself and for the home

390

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

in which she is life creator and life sustainer.

28. See Philip E. Jacob, Changing Values in College, New
York,1957.
29. Margaret Mead, "New Look at Early Marriages," interview
in U.S. News and World Report, June 6, 1960.
Chapter 8. l1HE MISTAKEN CHOICE
1. See the United Nations Demographic Yearbook, New York,

1960, pp. 99-118 and pp. 476-490; p. 580. The annual rate
of population increase in the U.S. in the years 1955-59 was
far higher than that of other Western nations, and higher
than that of India, Japan, Burma, and Pakistan. In fact, the
increase for North America (1.8) exceeded the world rate
(1.7). The rate for Europe was .8; for the USSR 1.7; Asia
1.8; Africa 1.9; and South America 2.3. The increase in the
underdeveloped nations was, of course, largely due to medical advances and the drop in death rate; in America it was
almost completely due to increased birth rate, earlier marriage, and larger families. For the birth rate continued to
rise in the U.S. from 1950 to 1959, while it was falling in
countries like France, Norway, Sweden, the USSR, India
and Japan. The U.S. was the only so-called "advanced" nation, and one of the few nations in the world where, in
1958, more girls married at ages 15-19 than at any other
age. Even the other countries which showed a rise in the
birth rate-Germany, Canada, the United Kingdom, Chile,
New Zealand, Peru-did not show this phenomenon of teenage marriage.
2. See "The Woman with Brains (continued)," New York
Times Magazine, January 17, 1960, for the outraged letters
in response to an article by Marya Mannes, "Female Intelligence-Who Wants It?" New York Times Magazine, January 3, 1960.
3. See National Manpower Council, Womanpower, New York,
1957. In 1940, more than half of all employed women in
the U.S. were under 25, and one-fifth were over 45. In the
1950's peak participation in paid employment occurs among
young women of 18 and 19-and women over 45, the great
majority of whom hold jobs for which little training is required. The new preponderance of older married women in
the working force is partly due to the fact that so few
women in their twenties and thirties now work, in the U.S.
Two out of five of all employed women are now over 45,
most of them wives and mothers, working part time at unskilled work. Those reports of millions of American wives

NOTES

391

working outside the home are misleading in more ways than
one: of all employed women, only one-third hold full-time
jobs, one-third work full time only part of the year-for instance, extra saleswomen in the department stores at Christmas-and one-third work part time, part of the year. The
women in the professions are, for the most part, that dwindling minority of single women; the older untrained wives
and mothers, like the untrained 18-year-olds, are concentrated at the lower end of the skill ladder and the pay
scales, in factory, service, sales and office work. Considering
the growth in the population, and the increasing professionalization of work in America, the startling phenomenon is
not the much-advertised, relatively insignificant increase in
the numbers of American women who now work outside the
home, but the fact that two out of three adult American
women do not work outside the home, and the increasing
millions of young women who are not skilled or educated
for work in any profession. See also Theodore Cap low, The
Sociology of Work, 1954, and Alva Myrdal and Viola
Klein, Women's Two Roles-Home and Work, London,
1956.
4. Edward Strecker, Their Mothers' Sons, Philadelphia and New
York, 1946. pp. 52-59.
5. Ibid .• pp. 31 ff.
6. Farnham and Lundberg, Modern Woman, The Lost Sex,
p. 271. See also Lynn White, Educating Our Daughters, p. 90.
Preliminary results of the careful study of American sex habits
being conducted at the University of Indiana by Dr. A. C. Kinsey indicate that there is an inverse correlation between education and the ability of a woman to achieve habitual orgastic
experience in marriage. According to the present evidence, admittedly tentative, nearly 65 per cent of the marital intercourse
had by women with college backgrounds is had without orgasm
for them, as compared to about 15 per cent for married women
who have gone no further than grade school.
7. Alfred C. Kinsey. et al., Staff of the Institute for Sex Research, Indiana University, Sexual Behavior in the Human
Female, Philadelphia and London, 1953. pp. 378 f.
8. Lois Meek Stolz, "Effects of Maternal Employment on Children: Evidence from Research," Child Development, Vol.
31. No.4, 1960, pp. 749-782.
9. H. F. Southard, "Mothers' Dilemma: To Work or Not?"
New York Times Magazine, July 17, 1960.
10. Stolz, op. cit. See also Myrdal and Klein, op. cit., pp. 125 If.

392

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

11. Benjamin Spock, "Russian Children Don't Whine, Squabble
or Break Things-Why?" Ladies' Home Journal, October,
1960.
12. David Levy, Maternal Overprotection, New York, 1943.
13. Arnold W. Green, "The Middle-Class Male Child and Neurosis," American Sociological Review, Vol. II, No.1, 1946.
Chapter 9. THE SEXUAL SELL
1. The studies upon which this chapter is based were done by
the Staff of the Institute for Motivational Research, directed
by Dr. Ernest Dichter. They were made available to me
through the courtesy of Dr. Dichter and his colleagues, and
are on file at the Institute, in Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
2. Harrison Kinney, Has Anybody Seen My Father?, New
York, 1960.
Chapter 10. HOUSEWIFERY EXPANDS TO FILL
THE TIME AVAILABLE
1. Jhan and June Robbins, "Why Young Mothers Feel
Trapped," Redbook, September, 1960.
2. Carola WoerishofTer Graduate Department of Social
Economy and Social Research, "Women During the War
and After," Bryn Mawr College, 1945.
3. Theodore Caplow points out in The Sociology of Work, p.
234, that with the rapidly expanding economy since 1900,
and the extremely rapid urbanization of the United States,
the increase in the employment of women from 20.4% in
1900 to 28.5% in 1950 was exceedingly modest. Recent
studies of time spent by American housewives on housework, which confirm my description of the Parkinson. effect,
are summarized by Jean Warren, "Time: Resource or Utility," Journal of Home Economics, Vol. 49, January, 1957,
pp. 21 fT. Alva Myrdal and Viola Klein in Women's Two
Roles-Home and Work cite a French study which showed
that working mothers reduced time spent on housework by
30 hours a week, compared to a full-time housewife. The
work week of a working mother with three children broke
down to 35.2 hours on the job, 48.3 hours on housework;
the full-time housewife spent 77.7 hours on housework. The
mother with a full-time job or profession, as well as the
housekeeping and children, worked only one hour a day longer than the full-time housewife.
4. Robert Wood, Suburbia, lis People and Their Politics, Boston, 1959.

NOTES

393

5. See "Papa's Taking Over the PTA Mama Started," New
York Herald Tribune, February to, 1962. At the 1962 national convention of Parent-Teacher Associations, it was revealed that 32% of the 46,457 PTA presidents are now
men. In certain states the percentage of male PTA heads is
even higher, including New York (33 per cent), Connecticut (45 per cent) and Delaware (80 per cent).
.
6. Nanette E. Scofield, "Some Changing Roles of Women in
Suburbia: A Social Anthropological Case Study," transactions of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. 22, No.
6, April, 1960.
7. Mervin B. Freedman, "Studies of College Alumni," in The
American College, pp. 872 f.
8. Murray T. Pringle, "Women Are Wretched Housekeepers,"
Science Digest, June, 1960.
9. See Time, April 20, 1959.
10. Farnham and Lundberg, Modern Women: The Lost Sex,
p.369.
11. Edith M. Stem, "Women are Household Slaves," American
Mercury, January, 1949.
12. Russell Lynes, "The New Servant Class," in A Surfeit of
Honey, New York, 1957, p. 49-64.
Chapter 11. THE SEX-SEEKERS
1. Several social historians have commented on America's sex-

ual preoccupation from the male point of view. "America ·
has come to stress sex as much as any civilization since the
Roman," says Max Lerner (America as a Civilization, p.
678). David Riesman in The Lonely Crowd (New Haven,
1950, p. 172 fl.) calls sex "the Last Frontier."
More than before, as job-mindedness declines, sex permeates
the daytime as well as the playtime consciousness. It is viewed
as a consumption good not only by the old leisure classes but
by the modem leisure masses ....
One reason for the change is that women are no longer objects for the acquisitive consumer but are peer-groupers themselves. . . . Today, millions of women, freed by technology
from many household tasks, given by technology many aids to
romance, have become pioneers with men on the frontiers of
sex. As they become knowing consumers, the anxiety of men
lest they fail to satisfy the women also grows ...
It is mainly the clinicians who have noted that the men are
often less eager now than their wives as sexual "consumers."
The late Dr. Abraham Stone, whom I interviewed shortly
before his death, said that the wives complain more and

394

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

more of sexually "inadequate" husbands. Dr. Karl Menninger reports that for every wife who complains of her husband's excessive sexuality, a dozen wives complain that
their husbands are apathetic or impotent. These "problems"
are cited in the mass media as additional evidence that
American women are losing their "femininity"-and thus
provide new ammunition for the mystique. See John Kord
Lagemann, "The Male Sex," Redbook, December, 1956.
2. Albert Ellis, The Folklore of Sex, New York, 1961, p. 123.
3. See the amusing parody, "The Pious Pornographers," by Ray
Russell, in The Permanent Playboy, New York, 1959.
4. A. C. Spectorsky, The Exurbanites, New York, 1955, p. 223.
5. Nathan Ackerman, The Psychodynamics of Family Life,
New York, 1958, pp. 112-127.
6. Evan Hunter, Strangers When We Meet, New York, 1958,
pp.23 1-235.
7. Kinsey, et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Female, pp.
353 if., p. 426.
8. Doris Menzer-Benaron M.D., et al., "Patterns of Emotional
Recovery from Hysterectomy," Psychosomatic Medicine,
XIX. No.5, September, 1957, pp. 378-388.
9. The fact that 75 per cent to 85 per cent of young mothers in
America today feel negative emotions-resentment, grief,
disappointment, outright rejection-when they become pregnant for the first time has been established in many studies.
In fact, the perpetrators of the feminine mystique report
findings to reassure young mothers that they are only "normal" in feeling this strange rejection of pregnancy-and that
the only real problem is their "guilt" over feeling it. Thus
Redbook magazine, in "How Women Really Feel about
Pregnancy" (November, 1958), reports that the Harvard
School of Public Health found 80 to 85 per cent of "normal
women reject the pregnancy when they become pregnant";
Long Island College Clinic found that less than a fourth of
women are "happy" about their pregnancy; a New Haven
study finds only 17 of 100 women "pleased" about having a
baby. Comments the voice of editorial authority:
The real danger that arises when a pregnancy is unwelcome and
filled with troubled feelings is that a woman may become guilty
and panic-stricken because she believes her reactions are unnatural or abnormal. Both marital and mother-child relations
can be damaged as a result. . . . Sometimes a mental-health
specialist is needed to allay guilt feelings . . .. Nor is there any
time when a normal woman does not have feelings of depression and doubt when she learns that she is pregnant.
Such articles never mention the various studies which indi-

NOTES

395

cate that women in other countries, both more and less advanced than the United States, and even American "career"
women, are less likely to experience this emotional rejection
of pregnancy. Depression at pregnancy may be "normal" for
the housewife-mother in the era of the feminine mystique,
but it is not normal to motherhood. As Ruth Benedict said,
it is not biological necessity, but our culture which creates
the discomforts, physical and psychological, of the female
cycle. See her Continuities and Discontinuities in Cultural
Conditioning.
10. See William J. Goode, After Divorce. Glencoe, Ill., 1956.
11. A. C. Kinsey, et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Male.
Philadelphia and London, 1948, p. 259, pp. 585-588.
12. The male contempt for the American woman, as she has
molded herself according to the feminine mystique, is depressingly explicit in the July, 1962 issue of Esquire, "The
American Woman, A New Point of View," See especially
"The Word to Women-'No'" by Robert Alan Aurthur, p.
32. The sexless ness of the American female sex-seekers is
eulogized by Malcolm Muggeridge ("Bedding Down in the
Colonies," p. 84): "How they mortify the flesh in order to
make it appetizing! Their beauty is a vast industry, their enduring allure a discipline which nuns or athletes might find
excessive. With too much sex to be sensual, and too ravishing to ravish, age cannot wither them nor custom stale their
infinite monotony."
13. Kinsey, et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Male. p. 631.
14. See Donald Webster Cory, The Homosexual in America;)
New York, 1960, preface to second edition, pp. xxii ff. Also
Albert Ellis, op cit., pp. 186-190. Also Seward Hiltner, "Stability and Change in American Sexual Patterns," in Sexual
Behavior in American Society, Jerome Himelhoch and
Sylvia Fleis Fava, eds., New York, 1955, p. 321.
15. Sigmund Freud, Three Contributions to the Theory of Sex,
New York, 1948, p. 10.
16. Kinsey, et aI., Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, pp. 610
ff. See also Donald Webster Cory, op. cit., pp. 97 ff.
17. Birth out of wedlock increased 194 per cent from 1956 to
1962; venereal disease among young people increased 132
per cent. (Time. March 16, 1962).
18. Kinsey, et aI., Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, pp. 348
ff.,427-433.
19. Kinsey, et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Female, pp.
293, 378, 382.
20. Clara Thompson, "Changing Concepts of Homosexuality in
Psychoanalysis" in A Study of Interpersonal Relations, New

396

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

Contributions to Psychiatry, Patrick Mullahy, ed., New
York, 1949, pp. 218 f.
21. Erich Fromm, "Sex and Character: the Kinsey Report
Viewed from the Standpoint of Psychoanalysis," in Sexual
Behavior in American Society, p. 307.
22. Carl Binger, "The Pressures On College Girls Today," Atlantic Monthly, February, 1961.
23. Sallie Bingham, "Winter Term," Mademoiselle, July, 1958.
Chapter 12. PROGRESSIVE DEHUMANIZATION:
THE COMFORTABLE
CONCENTRATION CAMP
1. Marjorie K. McCorquodale, "What They Will Die for in
Houston," Harper's, October, 1961.
2. See David Riesman, The Lonely Crowd; also Erich Fromm,
Escape From Freedum, New York and Toronto, 1941, pp.
185-206. Also Erik H. Erikson, Childhood and Society, p.
239.
3. David Riesman, introduction to Edgar Friedenberg's The
Vanishing Adolescent, Boston, 1959.
4. Harold Taylor, "Freedom and Authority on the Campus," in
The American College, pp. 780 II.
5. David Riesman, introduction to Edgar Friedenberg's The
Vanishing Adolescent.
6. See Eugene Kinkead, In Every War But One, New York,
1959. There has been an attempt in recent years to discredit
or soft-pedal these findings. But a taped record of a talk
given before the American Psychiatric Association in 1958
by Dr. William Mayer, who had been on one of the Army
teams of psychiatrists and intelligence officers who interviewed the returning prisoners in 1953 and analyzed the
data, caused many pediatricians and child specialists to ask,
in the words of Dr. Spock: "Are unusually permissive, indulgent parents more numerous today-and are they weakening the character of our children?" (Benjamin Spock,
"Are We Bringing Up Our Children Too 'Soft' for the Stem
Realities They Must Face?" Ladies' Home Journal, September, 1960.) However unpleasantly injurious to American
pride, there must be some explanation for the collapse of
the American GI prisoners in Korea, as it differed not only
from the behavior of American soldiers in previous wars,
but from the behavior of soldiers of other nations in Korea.
No American soldier managed to escape from the enemy
prison camps, as they had in every other war. The shocking
38 per cent death rate was not explainable, even according
to military authorities, on the basis of the climate, food, or

NOTES

397

inadequate medical facilities in the camps, nor was it caused
by brutality or torture. "Give-up-itis" is how one doctor described the disease the Americans died from; they simply
spent the days curled up under blankets, cutting down their
diet to water alone, until they were dead, usually within
three weeks. This seemed to be an American phenomenon.
Turkish prisoners, who were also part of the UN force in
Korea, lost no men by disease or starvation; they stuck together, obeyed their officers, adhered to health regulations,
cooperated in the care of their sick, and refused to inform
on one another.
7. Edgar Friedenberg, The Vanishing Adolescent, pp. 212 ff.
8. Andras Angyal, M.D., "Evasion of Growth," American Journal of Psychiatry, Vol. 110, No. 5, November, 1953, pp.
358-361. See also Erich Fromm, Escape from Freedom, pp.
138-206.
9. See Richard E. Gordon and Katherine K. Gordon, "Social
Factors in the Prediction and Treatment of Emotional
Disorders of Pregnancy," American Journal of Obstetrics
and Gynecology, 1959,77:5, pp. 1074-1083; also Richard E.
Gordon and Katherine K. Gordon, "Psychiatric Problems of
a Rapidly Growing Suburb," American Medical Association
Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry, 1958, Vol. 79; "Psychosomatic Problems of a Rapidly Growing Suburb," Journal of the American Medical Association, 1959, 170:15; and
"Social Psychiatry of a Mobile Suburb," International Journal of Social Psychiatry, 1960, 6: I, 2, pp. 89-99. Some of
these findings were popularized in the composite case histories of The Split Level Trap, written by the Gordons in collaboration with Max Gunther (New York, 1960).
10. Richard E. Gordon, "Sociodynamics and Psychotherapy,"
A .M.A. Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry, April, 1959,
Vol. 81, pp. 486-503.
11. Adelaide M. Johnson and S. A. Szu rels, "The Genesis of
Antisocial Acting Out in Children and Adults," Psychoanalytic Quarterly, 1952,21 :323-343.
12. Ibid.
l3. Beata Rank, "Adaptation of the Psychoanalytical Technique
for the Treatment of Young Children with Atypical Development," American Journal oj Orthopsychiatry, XIX, I,
January, 1949.
14. Ibid.
15. Ibid.
16. Beata Rank, Marian C. Putnam, and Gregory Rochlin,
M.D., "The Significance of the 'Emotional Climate' in Early
Feeding Difficulties," Psychosomatic Medicine, X, 5, October, 1948.

398

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

17. Richard E. Gordon and Katherine K. Gordon, "Social Psychiatry of a Mobile Suburb," op. cit., pp. 89-100.
18. Ibid.
19. Oscar Sternbach, "Sex Without Love and Marriage
Without Responsibility," an address presented at the 38th
Annual Conference of The Child Study Association of
America, March 12, 1962, New York City (mimeo ms.) .
20. Bruno Bettelheim, The Informed Heart-Autonomy in a
Mass Age, Glencoe, lil., 1960.
21. Ibid., pp. 162-169.
22. Ibid., p. 231.
23. Ibid., pp. 233 If.
24. Ibid., p. 265.
Chapter 13. THE FORFEITED SELF

1. Rollo May, "The Origins and Significance of the Existential
Movement in Psychology," in Existence, A New Dimension
in Psychiatry and Psychology, Rollo May, Ernest Angel and
Henri F. Ellenberger, eds., New York, 1958, pp. 30 f. (See
also Erich Fromm, Escape from Freedom, pp. 269 If.; A. H.
Maslow, Motivation and Personality, New York, 1954; David Riesman, The Lonely Crowd.)
2. Rollo May, "Contributions of Existential Psychotherapy," in
Existence, A New Dimension in Psychiatry and Psychology,
p.87.
3. Ibid., p. 52.
4. Ibid., p. 53.
5. Ibid., pp. 59 f.
6. See Kurt Goldstein, The Organism, A Holistic Approach to
Biology Derived From Pathological Data on Man, New
York and Cincinnati, 1939; also Abstract and Concrete Behavior, Evanston, Ill., 1950; Case of Idiot Savant (with
Martin Scheerer), Evanston, 1945; Human Nature in the
Light of Psychopathology, Cambridge, 1947; After-Effects 0/
Brain Injuries in War, New York, 1942.
7. Eugene Minkowski, "Findings in a Case of Schizophrenic
Depression," in Existence, A New Dimension in Psychiatry
and Psychology, pp. 132 f.
8. O. Hobart Mowrer, "Time as a Determinant in Integrative
Learning," in Learning Theory and Personality Dynamics,
New York, 1950.
9. Eugene Minkowski, op. cit., pp. 133-138:
We think and act and desire beyond that death which, even so,
we could not escape. The very existence of such phenomena as
the desire to do something for future generations clearly indi-

NOTES

399

cates our attitude in this regard. In our patient, it was this propulsion toward the future which seemed to be totally lacking .
. . . In this personal impetus, there is an element of expansion;
we go beyond the limits of our own ego and leave a personal
imprint on the world about us, creating works which sever
themselves from us to live their own lives. This accompanies a
specific, positive feeling which we call contentment-that pleasure which accompanies every finished action or firm decision.
As a feeling, it is unique . . . . Our entire individual evolution
consists in trying to surpass that which has already been done.
When our mental life dims, the future closes in front of us •••
10. Rollo May, "Contributions of Existential Psychotherapy,"
pp. 31 f. In Nietzsche'S philosophy, human individuality and
dignity are "given or assigned to us as a task which we ourselves must solve"; in Tillich's philosophy, if you do not
have the "courage to be," you lose your own being; in Sartre's, you are your choices.
11. A. H. Maslow, Motivation and PersonaLity, p. 83.
12. A. H. Maslow, "Some Basic Propositions of Holistic-Dynamic Psychology," an unpublished paper, Brandeis University.
13. Ibid.
14. A. H. Maslow, "Dominance, Personality and Social Behavior in Women," JournaL ot SociaL PsychoLogy, 1939, Vol.
10, pp. 3-39; and "Self Esteem (Dominance-Feeling) and
Sexuality in Women," Journal ot SociaL PsychoLogy, 1942,
Vol. 16, pp. 259-294.
15. A. H. Maslow, "Dominance, Personality and Social Behavior in Women," op. cit., pp. 3-11.
16. Ibid., pp. 13 f.
17. Ibid., p. 180.
18. A. H. Maslow, "Self-Esteem (Dominance-Feeling) and Sexuality in Women," pp. 288. Maslow points out, however,
that women with "ego insecurity" pretended a "self-esteem"
they did not actually have. Such women had to "dominate,"
in the ordinary sense, in their sexual relations, to compensate for their "ego insecurity"; thus, they were either castrative or masochistic. As I have pointed out, such women
must have been very common in a society which gives
women little chance for true self-esteem; this was undoubtedly the basis of the man-eating myth, and of Freud's equation of femininity with castrative penis envy and/or masochistic passivity.
19. A. H. Maslow, Motivation and Personality, pp. 200 f.
20. Ibid., pp. 211 f.
21. Ibid., pp. 214.

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

400

22. Ibid., pp. 242 f.
23. Ibid., pp. 257 f. Maslow found that his self-actualizing people "have in unusual measure the rare .ability to be pleased
rather than threatened by the partner's triumphs. . . . A
most impressive example of this respect is the ungrudging
pride of such a man in his wife's achievements even where
they outshine his." (Ibid., p. 252).
24. Ibid., p. 245.
25. Ibid., p. 255.
26. A. C. Kinsey. et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Female,
pp. 356 if.; Table 97, p. 397; Table 104, p. 403.
Decade of Birth vs. Percentage of Marital Coitus Leading to
Orgasm.
In First yr. of Marriage, per cent of females
Decade of Birth
%of Marital
Coitus with Orgasm
None
1-29
30-59
60-89
90-100
Number of cases

Before
1900

19001909

19101919

19201929

33
9
10
11
37

27
13
22
11
37

23
12
12
38

22
8
12
15
43

331

589

834

484

15

In Fifth yr. of Marriage, per cent of females

Decade of Birth
% of Marital
Coitus with Orgasm
None
1-29
30-59
60-89
90-100
Number of cases

Before
1900

19001909

19101919

19201929

23
14
14
12
37

17
15
13
13
42

12
13
16
17
42

12
14
19
19
36

302

489

528

130

27. Ibid., p. 355.
28. See Judson T. Landis, "The Women Kinsey Studied,"
George Simpson, "Nonsense about Women," and A. H.

HOTES

401

Maslow and James M. Sakoda, "Volunteer Error in the Kinsey Study," in Sexual Behavior in American Society.
29. Ernest W. Burgess and Leonard S. Cottrell, Jr., Predicting
Success or Failure in Marriage, New York, 1939, p. 271.
30. A. C. Kinsey, et al., Sexual Behavior in the Human Female,
p.403.
31. Sylvan Keiser, "Body Ego During Orgasm," Psychoanalytic
Quarterly, 1952, Vol. XXI, pp. 153-166:
Individuals of this group are characterized by failure to develop
adequate egos . . . . Their anxious devotion to, and lavish care
of, their bodies belies the inner feelings of hollowness and inadequacy.... These patients have little sense of their own identity and are always ready to take on the personality of someone
else. They have few personal convictions, and yield readily to
the opinions of others. . . . It is chiefly among such patients that coitus can be enjoyed only up to the point of orgasm .
• . . They dared not allow themselves uninhibited progression to
orgasm with its concomitant loss of control, loss of awareness
of the body, or death .... In instances of uncertainty about the
structure and boundaries of the body image, one might say that
the skin does not serve as an envelope which sharply defines the
transition from the self to the environment; the one gradually
merges into the other; there is no assurance of being a distinct
entity endowed with the strength to give of itself without endangering one's own integrity.
32. Lawrence Kubie, "Psychiatric Implications of the Kinsey
Report," in Sexual Behavior in American Society, pp. 270 fI:
This simple biologic aim is overlaid by many subtle goals of
which the individual himself is usually unaware. Some of these
are attainable; some are not. Where the majority are attainable,
then the end result of sexual activity is an afterglow of peaceful
completion and satisfaction. Where, however, the unconscious
goals are unattainable, then whether orgasm has occurred or
not, there remains a post-coital state of unsated need, and some
times of fear, rage or depression.
33. Erik H. Erikson, Childhood and Society, pp. 239-283, 367380. See also Erich Fromm, Escape from Freedom and Man
for Himself; and David Riesnian, The Lonely Crowd.
34. See Alva Myrdal and Viola Klein (Women's Two Roles),
who point out that the number of American women now
working outside the home seems greater than it is because
the base from which the comparison is usually made was
unusually small: a century ago the proportion of American
women working outside the home was far smaller than in

402

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

the European countries. In other words, the woman problem
in America was probably unusually severe because the displacement of American women from essential work and
identity in society was far more drastic-primarily because
of the extremely rapid growth and industrialization of the
American economy. The women who had grown with the
men in the frontier days were banished almost overnight to
anomie-which is a very expressive sociological name for
that sense of nonexistence or nonidentity suffered by one
who has no real place in society-when the important work
left the home, where they stayed. In contrast, in France
where industrialization was slower, and farms and small
family-size shops are still fairly important in the economy,
women a century ago still worked in large numbers-in field
and shop-and today the majority of French women are not
full-time housewives in the American sense of the mystique,
for an enormous number still work in the fields, in addition
to that one out of three who, as in America, work in industry, sales, offices, and professions. The growth of women in
France has much more closely paralleled the growth of the
society, since the proportion of French women in the professions has doubled in fifty years. It is interesting to note that
the feminine mystique does not prevail in France, to the extent that it does here; there is a legitimate image in France
of a feminine career woman and feminine intellectual, and
Frenchmen seem responsive to women sexually, without
equating femininity either with glorified emptiness or that
man-eating castrative mom. Nor has the family been weakened-in actuality or mystique-by women's work in industry and profession. Myrdal and Klein show that the French
career women continue to have children-but not the great
number the new educated American housewives produce.
35. Sidney Ditzion, Marriage, Morals and Sex in America, A
History of Ideas, New York, 1953, p. 277.
36. William James, Psychology, New York, 1892, p. 458.
Chapter 14. A NEW LIFE PLAN FOR WOMEN
1. See "Mother's Choice: Manager or Martyr," and "For a
Mother's Hour," New York Times Magazine, January 14,

1962, and March 18, 1962.
2. The sense that work has to be "real," and not just "therapy"
or busywork, to provide a basis for identity becomes increasingly explicit in the theories of the self, even when
there is no specific reference to women. Thus, in defining
the beginnings of "identity" in the child, Erikson says in

NOTES

403

Childhood and Society (p. 208):
The growing child must, at every step, derive a vitalizing sense
of reality from the awareness that his individual way of mastering experience (his ego synthesis) is a successful variant of a
group identity and is in accord with its space-time and life plan.
In this children cannot be fooled by empty praise and condescending encouragement. They may have to accept artificial
bolstering of their self-esteem in lieu of something better, but
their ego identity gains real strength only from wholehearted
and consistent recognition of real accomplishment-i.e., of
achievement that has meaning in the culture.
3. Nanette E. Scofield, "Some Changing Roles of Women in
Suburbia: A Social Anthropological Case Study," transactions of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. 22, 6,
April, 1960.
4. Polly Weaver, "What's Wrong with Ambition?" Mademoiselle, September, 1956.
5. Edna G. Rostow, "The Best of Both Worlds," Yale Review,
March, 1962.
6. Ida Fisher Davidoff and May Elish Markewich, "The Postparental Phase in the Life Cycle of Fifty College-Educated
Women," unpublished doctoral study, Teachers College,
Columbia University, 1961. These fifty educated women had
been full-time housewives and mothers throughout the years
their children were in school. With the last child's departure,
the women suffering severe distress because they had no
deep interest beyond the home included a few whose actual
ability and achievement were high; these women had been
leaders in community work, but they felt like "phonies,"
"frauds," earning respect for "work a ten-year-old could
do." The authors' own orientation in the functional-adjustment school makes them deplore the fact that education
gave these women "unrealistic" goals (a surprising number,
now in their fifties and sixties, still wished they had been
doctors). However, those women who had pursued interestS-Which in every case had begun in college-and were
working now in jobs or politics or art, did not feel like
"phonies," or even suffer the expected distress at menopause. Despite the distress of those who lacked such interests, none of them, after the child-bearing years were over,
wanted to go back to school; there were simply too few
years left to justify the effort. So they continued "woman's
role" by acting as mothers to their own aged parents or by
finding pets, plants, or simply "people as my hobby" to take
the place of their children.

404

. THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

The interpretation of the two family-life educators-who
themselves became professional marriage counselors in middle age-is interesting:
For those women in our group who had high aspirations or
high intellectual endowment or both, the discrepancy between
some of the values stressed in our success-and-achievement oriented society and the actual opportunities open to the older, untrained women was especially disturbing .... The door open to
the woman with a skill was closed to the one without training,
even if she was tempted to try to find a place for herself among
the gainfully employed. The reality hazards of the work situation seemed to be recognized by most, however. They felt neither prepared for the kind of job which might appeal to them,
nor willing to take the time and expend the energy which
would be required for training, in view of the limited number
of active years ahead . . . . The lack of pressure resulting from
reduced responsibility had to be handled . . . . As the primary
task of motherhood was finished, the satisfactions of volunteer
work, formerly a secondary outlet, seemed to be diminishing.
. . . The cultural activities of the suburbs were limited. . . .
Even in the city, adult education . . . seemed to be "busy
work," leading nowhere....
Thus, some women expressed certain regrets: "It is too late
to develop a new skill leading to a career." "If I had pursued a
single line, it would have utilized my potential to the full."
But the authors note with approval that "the vast majority
have somehow adjusted themselves to their place in
society."
Because our culture demands of women certain renunciations of
activity and limits ber scope of participation in the stream of
life, at this point being a woman would seem to be an advantage rather than a handicap. All her life, as a female, she had
been encouraged to be sensitive to the feelings and needs of
others. Her life, at stategic points, had required denials of self.
She had had ample opportunities for "dress rehearsals" for this
latest renunciation ... of a long series of renunciations begun
early in life. Her whole life as a woman had been giving her a
skill which she was now free to use to the full without further
preparation ...
7. Nevitt Sanford, "Personality Development During the College
Years," Journal of Social Issues, 1956, Vol. 12, No.4, p.
36.
8. The public flurry in the spring of 1962 over the sexual virginity of Vassar girls is a case in point. The real question,
for the educator, would seem to me to be whether these

NOTES

405

girls were getting from their education the serious lifetime
goals only education can give them. If they are, they can be
trusted to be responsible for their sexual behavior. President
Blanding indeed defied the mystique to say boldly that if
girls are not in college for education, they should not be
there at all. That her statement caused such an uproar is evidence of the extent of sex-directed education.
9. The impossibility of part-time study of medicine, science, and
law, and of part-time graduate work in the top universities
has kept many women of high ability from attempting it.
But in 1962, the Harvard Graduate School of Education let
down this barrier to encourage more able housewives to become teachers. A plan was also announced in New York to
permit women doctors to do their psychiatric residencies and
postgraduate work on a part-time basis, taking into account
their maternal responsibilities.
10. Virginia L. Senders, ''The Minnesota Plan for Women's
Continuing Education," in "Unfinished Business-Continuing Education for Women," The Educational Record, American Council on Education, October. 1961, pp. 10 ff.
11. Mary Bunting, ''The Radcliffe Institute for Independent
Study," Ibid., pp. 19 ff. Radcliffe's president reflects the feminine mystique when she deplores "the use the first college
graduates made of their advanced educations. Too often and
understandably, they became crusaders and reformers, passionate, fearless, articulate, but also, at times, loud. A stereotype of the educated women grew up in the popular mind
and concurrently, a prejudice against both the stereotype
and the education." Similarly she states:
That we have not made any respectable attempt to meet the
special educational needs of women in the past is the clearest
possible evidence of the fact that our educational objectives
have been geared exclusively to the vocational patterns of men.
In changing that emphasis, however, our goal should not be to
equip and encourage women to compete with men. . . •
Women, because they are not generally the principal breadwinners, can be perhaps most useful as the trail blazers, working
along the bypaths, doing the unusual job that men cannot afford
to gamble on. There is always room on the fringes even when
competition in the intellectual market places is keen.
That women use their education today primarily "on the
fringes" is a result of the feminine mystique, and of the
prejudices against women it masks; it is doubtful whether
these remaining barriers will ever be overcome if even educators are going to discourage able women from becoming
"crusaders and reformers, passionate, fearless, articulate,"and loud enough to be heard.

406

THE FEMININE MYSTIQUE

12. Time, November, 1961. See also "Housewives at the $2
Window," New York Times Magazine, April I, 1962, which
describes how babysitting services and "clinics" for suburban
housewives are now being offered at the race tracks.
13. See remarks of State Assemblywoman Dorothy Bell
Lawrence, Republican, of Manhattan, reported in the New
York Times, May 8, 1962. The first woman to be elected a
Republican district leader in New York City, she explained:
"I was doing all the work, so 1 told the county chairman
that 1 wanted to be chairman. He told me it was against the
rules for a woman to hold the post, but then he changed the
rules." In the Democratic "reform" movement in New York,
women are also beginning to assume leadership posts commensurate with their work, and the old segregated "ladies'
auxiliaries" and "women's committees" are beginning to go.
14. Among more than a few women I interviewed who had, as
the mystique advises, completely renounced their own ambitions to become wives and mothers, I noticed a repeated history of miscarriages. In several cases, only after the woman
finally resumed the work she had given up, or went back to
graduate school, was she able to carry to term the long-desired second or third child.
15. American women's life expectancy-75 years-is the longest of women anywhere in the world. But as Myrdal and
Klein point out in Women's Two Roles, there is increasing
recognition that, in human beings, chronological age differs
from biological age: "at the chronological age of 70, the
divergencies in biological age may be as wide as between the
chronological ages of 50 and 90." The new studies of aging
in humans indicate that those who have the most education
and who live the most complex and active lives, with deep
interests and readiness for new experience and learning, do
not get "old" in the sense that others do. A close study of
300 biographies (See Charlotte Buhler, "The Curve of Life
as Studied in Biographies," Journal of Applied Psychology,
XIX, August, 1935, pp. 405 ff.) reveals that in the latter
half of life, the person's productivity becomes independent
of his biological equipment, and, in fact, is often at a higher
level than his biological efficiency-that is, if the person has
emerged from biological living. Where "spiritual factors"
dominated activity, the highest point of productivity came in
the latter part of life; where "physical facts" were decisive
in the life of an individual, the high point was reached earlier and the psychological curve was then more closely comparable to the biological. The study of educated women
cited above revealed much less suffering at menopause than
is considered "normal" in America today. Most of these
women whose horizons had not been confined to physical

NOTES

407

housekeeping and their biological role, did not, in their fifties and sixties feel "old." Many reported in surprise that
they suffered much less discomfort at menopause than their
mothers' experience had led them to expect. Therese
Benedek suggests (in "Climacterium: A Developmental
Phase," Psychoanalytical Quarterly, XIX, 1950, p. 1) that
the lessened discomfort, and burst of creative energy many
women now experience at menopause, is at least in part due
to the "emancipation" of women. Kinsey's figures seem to
indicate that women who have by education been emancipated from purely biological living, experience the full peak
of sexual fulfillment much later in life than had been expected, and in fact, continue to experience it through the
forties and past menopause. Perhaps the best example of
this phenomenon is Colette-that truly human, emancipated
French woman who lived and loved and wrote with so little
deference to her chronological age that she said on her
eightieth birthday: "If only one were 58, because at that
time one is still desired and full of hope for the future."

INDEX

INO[X

Abolition, related to feminist movement, 80, 81,
84-85
Abortion, right to safe, 371,
372-373, 375, 378
Abzug, Bella, 377
acting out, 277
Addams, Jane, 90, 310
Alcott, Louisa May, 89
alumnae, survey of women's
college, 159, see also specific colleges
ambition, Mademoiselle survey of, 343
American College, The, 155157
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 378
American Women: The Changing image, 140
"anatomy is destiny" (Freud),
126, (M. Mead), 128-130
Anderson, Major Clarence,
274
Andreas-Salome, Lou, 105
AngyaI, Andras, 279-280
anomie, 172, 402
Anthony, Susan, 75, 82, 88
Anti-Slavery Society, 81
Apartment, The, 261-262
Barnard College, 358; survey,
24
"Battered-Child Syndrome,"
291-292

behavioral sciences, cross-fertilization of, 117
Benedict, Ruth, 194
Bergen County, N.J., survey
of, 282-283, 289-290
Bernays, Minna, 105
Bettelheim, Bruno, 294, 297298
birth control, 371
birthrate, 12, 175-6, 379,
(Ch. 8, n. 1) ,390
Blackwell, Alice Stone, 83
Blackwell, Elizabeth, 82, 89
Blackwell, Henry, 82
Blatch, Harriet, 90
"bloomer" dress 87
Bonaparte, Marie, 105
boredom, in children, 271-278
in housewives, 240-241
Breakfast at Tiffany's, 259
Brown, Rev. Antionette, 82
Bryn Mawr College, 165
survey by, 231
Bunting, Mary, 354
Burgess, Ernest W., 318-319
buying as fulfillment, 216
Capote, Truman, 259
career, equated with celibacy,
120-1
"career woman's guilt syndrome," 340-341
career women, 32-33, 34, 4041

INDEX

412

castration complex, 106-108,
112-113
Catt, Carrie Chapman, 91
Ceballos, Jacqui, 373
Celler, Emanuel, 378
Chapman Report, The, 252
childbirth, depression, 281283, (Ch. 11, n. 9) 394
natural, 138-139; as symbol,
55
child-care centers, 371, 375,
377
children
of the Feminine Mystique,
269-274, 276-278
schizophrenic, 286-289
violence toward, 291-292
of working mothers, 185189
Child Study Association, 290
Chisholm, Shirley, 377
civilization, primitive and advanced, 131-132
Civil Rights Act (1964), 368369
Clarenbach, Kay, 369
coeducational education, inequality of, 157-158
college admissions and dropouts, 142
college, surveys of, 125, 154157, see also specific
college.
Columbia Teachers College,
149
Columbia University, 365
Communication Workers of
America, 369
competition, 177,359-361
Conant, Dr. James B., 153
concentration camps, behavior
of prisoners in, 294-296,
297-298
conformity
in advertising, 209-210
feminine, 65-66

of

life-adjustment education, 162-163
sex as, 165
Congress to Unite Women,
374
Conroy, Katherine, 369
"Consumerism," 216
convention, political, 376-377
Cornell Intersession on Women, 374
Cottrell, Leonard S., 318-319
Countrywoman, Betty Ann, 51
Davis, Caroline, 369
Davis, Kingsley, 126
de Beauvoir, Simone, 7-8, 14,
375
De Crow, Karen, 373
dehumanization, 271-298
delinquent and non-delinquent boys, survey of,
186
Democratic National Convention, 376-377
department stores, survey of,
213-14
determinism, 98-99
Deutsch, Helene, 112-113,
320
"discontinuity," 68
divorce, 261, 379
Dolce Vita, La, 252
Doll's House, A, 75-76, 100101
dominance, study of (A. H.
Maslow),306-310
Education, as key to trap to
feminine mystique, 344351
as life-adjustment, 119-120,
152-153, 157-158, 162164
effect of, 22-24
for "self-enrichment," 349
related to orgasm, 315-319
educational program for wom-

INDEX
en, proposals for, 248359
educators, sex-directed, 142173
ego growth, as basic human
need, 98-99, 109
"emancipated woman," 96
Enghausen, Maurice K., 238
Equal Employment Opportunities Commission, 369
protest against, 373
Equal Rights Amendment,
372-373 , 376-378
and backlash, 379
Erikson, Erik H., 70-72, 322
evasion of growth, 279-280
evolution, human, 98-99, 299304
Exurbanites, The, 253
Farnham, Marynia, 37, 111
"female troubles," 256-257
"feminine adjustment," 68
feminine mystique, passim
adjustment to, 54-56, 300301
beginnings of, 174-178
business as perpetuator of,
197-223
as core of contemporary
American culture, 14
cultural lag of, 141
definition of, 37-38
as devaluation of human
progress, 243-246
factors perpetuating, 370371
Freudian theory as basis of,
95-96
guilt about new patterns,
366-367
investigation of, 2-4, 7-8
related to identity crisis,
64-65
related to male homosexuality, 262-265

413
sex as only frontier in, 249
sex as substitute for achievement in, 254-255
woman scholar in, 150
women's
magazines
as
creators of, 28-29
as "youth serum," 70
feminine protest, 118
femininity, adjustment to cultu ral definition of, 124125
as evasion of growth, 305306
as immaturity, 68
loss of, 22
feminism, equated with penis
envy (Freud), 110-111
feminist movement, 73-74,
(Ch. 4, n . 1) 382
feminist myth, 79-80, 93
First Step to Revolution Is
Consciousness, The, 368
First Women's Bank & Trust
Company, 378
Foster, Abbey Kelley, 82
Freud, Anna, 100
Freud, Martha, 102-103
letters to, 100-101, 103-104
Freud, Sigmund, 19, 24, 263,
309,315
acceptance of Freudian
theory, 114-116
attitude toward women,
104-105
on concept of super-ego,
96, 116
definition of sexual nature
of women, 96
in letters to Martha Freud,
101, 103
on penis envy, 96-97
as prisoner of his culture,
97-99, 108-109
on sexual origin of neuroses,
98
theory of femininity, 99100

414

INDEX

theory of sex act as degrading, 106
on women as inherently
deficient, 108-109
Freudian psychology as an
American mania, 114116, 178-181
Fromm, Erich, 267
Fuller, Margaret, 74, 82, 86
"functional" education, 159164
functionalism, 118-126
as adjustment to the status
quo, 117-141
of family-life education,
117-118
as segregation of sex roles,
122-3
fur industry, survey of, 211212

housewife, 2, 17-20,365
as fictional heroine, 38-41
filling time, 224-246
as protector, 206
suburban, 13, 233-236, 366
housewife role, 296-297
"housewife's blight," 16
"housewife's fatigue," 25-6,
238-42
"housewife's syndrome," 16,
281-282
Housewife Writers, 50-51
housework, 227-46, 330, (Ch.
10, n. 3) 392
as "creative," 201-205, 207209, 212-215, 229, 244
expanding to fill time, 227233
Howe, Julia Ward, 74,86
Hull House, 90

Grs mothers of, 181-184
passivity of, 274
Goldstein, Dr. Kurt, 301
Good Housekeeping, 17, 3233,367
Gordon, Dr. Richard and
Katherine, 282-283, 289290
Governor's Commission (Wisconsin),369
Green, Arnold, 190-191
Grimke, Angelina, 74, 82, 84

Ibsen, Henrik, 75-76
identity, search for, 326-329
identity crisis of, 62-72, 321325
for feminists, 73, 74
for men, 8
image, lack of, 62-72
independence, economic, 371
First Women's Bank &
Trust Company, 378
infantilism in children, 283-4,
290-1
in mothers, 277-278
infantiIizing of American
women, 124-125
Institute for Executive'S Wives,
349
Institute
for
Independent
Study, 354

Haener, Dorothy, 369
Harper's Bazaar, 18-19
Harvard University, 373
Heide, Wilma, 373
Hernandez, Aileen, 369
high schools, surveys of, 6567, 153-155, 165-166
Holliday, Judy, 47
"homme manque," 106, 112
homosexuality, 262-265, 266267
role of mother in, 263-265

Jackson, Shirley, 50
Jacob report, 171-172
James, William, 324
James Jackson Putnam Children's Center, 287-288

INDEX
Jones, Ernest, 98, 102-105
juvenile delinquency, 186,
285-286
Kenyon, Dorothy, 376
Kerr, Jean, 50
"Kinder, Kuche, Kirche," 32
Kinsey, A. C., surveys by, 24,
181, 184-5,250,252,253,
256,261-2,263,264,266,
315-317,319-320
kitchens, as center of life, 13
Komarovsky, Mirra, 123
Korea, American prisoners of
war in, 274-275
Ladies' Home Journal, 2, 32-7,
44,46
"Have a Good Time, Dear,"
33-4
"How America Lives," 5557
"Mother-in-Law," 33
"Poet's Kitchen," 46
"The Sandwich Maker," 39
"Sarah and the Seaplane,"
34-35
Lawrence, Dr. Margaret, 164
Lerner, Max, 171
lesbianism, 375
Levy, David, 189
Life, 12,51-52,53
life-adjustment education, 119.
120, 151-153, 157-158,
162-164
Lindsay, John V., 376
Lonely Crowd, The, 171
Look, 20, 52-53
Lovshin, Dr. Leonard, 239
Luce, Clare, 30
Lundberg, Ferdinand, 37, 111
Lyon, Mary, 81, 84
Mademoiselle, 161
"Holiday," 55
survey by, 343

415
Male and Female, 37, 130131,136
male outrage against women,
262-3
man-haters, 374-375
marriage, as "regressive," 167
early, 12, 179-180, 265,
290-291
reform needed, 379
survey of courses on, 161162
marriage and family life education, 115-116, 119,
354-355
Marriage for Moderns, 119
masculine mystique, 372, 377
"masculinity complex," 112·
113
Maslow, A. H., 305-318
maternity leave, 371
McCall's, 2, 29-30, 32, 41-43,
221, 380
"I Didn't Want to Tell
You," 41
"Is Boredom Bad for You?"
241
"The Mother Who Ran
Away," 44
McCarthy, Eugene, 376
McGinley, Phyllis, 50
McGovern, George, 377
Mead, Margaret, 37, 117-41,
172-3
American Women:
The
Changing Image, 139-140
Coming of Age in Samoa,
126-7
contribution to feminine
mystique, 127-129, 134,
367-368
as example of feminine protest, 138-141
Freudian influence on, 137138
Freudian orientation of,
130-135

41&
Mead, Margaret (cont.)
From the South Seas
(quoted from), 128
as influence, 126-13 8
Male and Female, 37, 13031, 136
Sex and Temperament in
Three Primitive Societies,
139
as spokesman of femininity,
136-7
Mellon Foundation, 143, 165
Metrecal, 13
Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co., survey by, 175
Mill, John Stuart, 101-102
Millay, Edna St. Vincent, 46
Millet, Kate, 374
Mills College, 149, 150
Miss America beauty contest,
374
mistaken choice, defined, 195196
Modern Woman: The Lost
Sex, 37,111,150,184
mothers, attack on ("moms"),
180-184, 194-195
of GI's, 181-184
infantilism in, 277-278
overprotection by, 189-194
role in homosexuality, 263265
of Russian children, 188-189
working, effect on children,
185-9
"mother's hour off," 233
of
motivational
research,
American women, 199201
Mount Holyoke College, 77,
347-8
Mudd, Dr. Emily, 56
Murray, Judith Sargent, 77
Murray, Pauli, 369
"mutations," 362-363
Myrdal, Alva, 8

INDEX
National Organization for
Women (NOW), 370-372
activities of, 372-374, 378
formation of, 369-70
membership of, 376
organizing chapters of, 373
radicals within, 374-375
"Rights Not Roses," 373
and sexual politics, 374
and Vietnam war, 377
Women's Strike for Equality, 375-377
National Women's Political
Caucus, 378
new products, manipulating
need for, 217-218
Newsweek, 17, 19-20
New Woman, 32-35, 51, 69
New World Foundation report, 365
New York Times, 12, 17-18,
20, 186,220,359
Book Review, 292
"noncommitment,"
279-80,
292-3
Oberlin College, 81
"Occupation: housewife," 35,
37,44, 196,224-225,237,
338
Oedipus complex, 100
orgasm, frequency of, 315320
over emphasis on, 320-321
related to education, 315319
rela ted to strength of self,
311-12
"other-directed personality,"
272
overprotection by mothers,
189-194
Owen, Robert Dale, 78, 86
Paine, Thomas, 77

INDEX
Parker, Rev. Theodore, 78
Parkinson, C. Northcote, 230
"Parkinson's law," 230
Parsons, Talcott, 121-123
Paschall, Eliza, 373
passivity in children, 271-274
Pembroke College, 164
penis envy, 96-97, 106-116
feminism equated with, 110111
reinterpreted, 74-75
Peyton Place, 253
"Ph. T." (Putting Husband
Through), 12
Plan for Women's Continuing
Education, 358
Planned Parenthood, 12
politics, human, 380
power
economic, 378
political, 375-378, 379
President's Commission on the
Status of Women, 361,
367-368
prisoners, in Korea, 274-275,
(Ch. 11, n. 6),396-397
in concentration camps,
294-296, 297-298
Problem That Has No Name,
11-27 and passim
causes of, 21-27
clue to the mystery of, 313314
solution of, 326-364
procreation, as a cult, 139
promiscuity, 265-267
protectiveness as prejudice,
118-119
protests, activities of NOW,
372-374
pseudo-radical infantilism, 375
Psychology oj Woman, TheA Psychoanalytical Interpretation, 112
Queen Victoria, letters of, 119

417
Radcliffe College, 349, 354
Raushenbush, Esther, 359
rebellion, expressed sexually,
375
Redbook, 2, 3, 18, 20, 47, 51
"Breastfeeding," 51
"A Dream to Share," 33
"A Man Who Acted Like a
Husband," 40-41
"Why Young Mothers Are
Always Tired," 239-240
"Why Young Mothers Feel
Trapped," 59
religion and feminine mystique, 339-340
religious revival, 179
resistance to careers and
higher education, 142-148
retraining, of women, 371
revolution, of sex roles, 370,
377-78, 380; see also sex
roles
Riesman, David, 154, 171,
272,322
Riviere, Joan, 105
role confiicts, 367
"role crisis," 68, 354-355, 362
role-playing, 161
Roosevelt, Eleanor, 30, 310,
361
Rose, Ernestine, 74, 78, 86
Sanford, Nevitt, 171-172
Sanger, Margaret, 45, 74
Clinic, 24
Sarah Lawrence College, 143,
272-273, 356, 359
Schreiner, Mrs. Olive, 323
Second Sex, The, 14
self-actualization, need for,
299-325
study of (A. H. Maslow),
310-313
Senders, Virginia, 359
Seneca Falls Declaration, 7677, 79

418
. Seneca Falls Woman's Rights
Convention, 76-77, 85
"servant problem," 176-177
sex, in advertising, 197-223
in communications media,
250-253
as conformity, 165-166
depersonalized,
266-267,
269-270
hatred, 374-375
human, 380
as identity, 254-255, 265
as phantasy, 250, 258-259
as status, 260
without self, 249-250
sex seeking, 247-270
Sex and Temperament
139
sex/class warfare, 374-375
sex roles
need for change in, 371-372
revolution in, 370, 377-378,
380
sexual fulfillment, pursuit of,
249-50
sexual nature, acceptance of,
371
Sexual Politics, 374
Smith, Howard, 368
Smith College, 2, 7, 53-54,
62-64, 69, 144-146, 168,
345-347
sociology, as "present-minded,"
125-126
study of, (Ch. 6, n. 12) 386
Spock, Dr. Benjamin, 188-189
Stanton, Elizabeth Cady, 74,
77-78 85, 87, 90
Steinem, Gloria, 377
Stephens College, 149
sterling silver, survey of, 211
Stevenson, Adlai, 53-54
stewardesses, rights of, 372
Stolz, Dr. Lois Meek, 186,
187-188
Stone, Lucy, 80-83, 86, 87

INDEX
Strecker, Edward, 182-184
Students for a Democratic
Society
women's role in, 374
suburbs, movement to, 233236
Suddenly Last Summer, 262
super-ego, concept of, 96
symbiosis, 276-278, 286
Taylor, Harold, 272
teenage market, 209-212, 221222
Their Mothers' Sons, 182-183
Thomas, M. Carey, 89-90
Thompson, Clara, 106, 266267
Thompson, Dorothy, 35-36
Time, 17-18, 177
"Battered-Child Syndrome,"
291-292
"The Suburban Wife.
17
Tisserant, Cardinal, 152
Tobias, Sheila, 374
"togetherness," 41-42
traditional upbringing, 123-124
"Trapped Housewife, The"
(CBS Television), 17
Triangle Shirtwaist girls, 90
Truth, Sojourner, 88
Union movement, related to
feminist movement, 90
University of Colorado, survey
by, 291
University of Michigan, survey by, 240
University of Minnesota, 356,
358, 359
Vassar College study, 143-146,
165, 166-169
"vicario LIS living," 279-280,
290, 292-293,

INDEX
Victorian image of woman, 28,
100-102
Village Voice, 262
Wayne University, 238
Weaver, Polly, 343
Westchester County, N.Y.,
study of, 335
White, Lynn, 150
Williams, Tennessee, 179,262
Wollstonecraft, Mary, 74, 77,
86
Woman's Home Companion,
32,53
Woman's Party, 91
woman's rights movement,
73-94, (Ch. 4, n. 1)
382
Woman's Rights Convention,
Seneca Falls, 76-77, 85
women, attending college, 12,
(Ch. 7, n. 1) 387
attitude in college, 142-148,
164-165,167-168
back to the home, 12
creative energy in old age,
(Ch. 14, n. 15) 406-407
dilemma of American, 1,
3-4,7,9
employment of, 13, 158,
(Ch. 8, n. 3), 390-391,
(Ch. 10, n. 3), 392,
(Ch. 13, n. 34) 401-402
exceptional, 367-368
infant iIi zing of, 124-125
as
inherently
deficient
(Freud), 108
love essential to, 371, 380
male hostility against, 262263, 268-270
marriage age of, 12, 179,
265-266, 290-291, (Ch.
7, n. 13) 388
new life plan for, 326-364,
367,380
as sex aggressors, 20-21,

419

252-253, 260
sex-directed education of,
142-173
as victims of purchasing
power, 199, 218-221
"Women Strike for Peace,"
361
''women's lib," 376
women's magazines, 28-61,
see also specific magazines
as creators of the feminine
mystique, 28-29
emphasis on glamour, 58
"service" features of, 30, 48
surveys, 45
typical table of contents of,
29-30
writers and editors of, 3132,43-46, 47-50, 59, 221
writing for, 2-3, 47-51
women's movement
formation of, 367
international aspect of, 378379
love as element within, 371,
380
necessity of, 368-369, 375376
radicals within, 374-375
rapid growth of, 374
and sex-role revolution,
377
underground, 373
see also National Organization for Women
Women's Political Caucus,
378
Women's Strike for Equality,
375-377
work, 242-243
as identity, 321-325, 332344
importance of, 371
"Work Expands to Fill the
Time Available," 230

420

working mothers, 1-2, 185189
Wright, Fanny, 78
Wylie, Ida Alexa Ross, 92-93

INDEX

Yale University, 352, 373
young radicals, 374-375

"AFTER ALL THE FREAKS
AND LUNATIC FRINGERS
HAVE GONE HOME, WHEN
THE JET-SETTERS,
EXHIBITIONISTS AND
MAN-HATERS HAVE BEEN
FORGOTTEN, THE FEMININE
MYSTIQUE WILL BE
REMEMBERED AS THE BOOK
THAT PULLED THE TRIGGER
OF HISTORY:'
-Alvin Toffler, author of
Future Shock
This is the book that shows that a
woman can be her own self and
achieve her own goals without
sacrificing either marriage or
motherhood.
This is the book that broke the
conspiracy of silence about the
plight of the American woman and
the dehumanizing trap she was in.
This is the book that has made all
the difference-

r.U18 'F8mi

'Ill' "

~~ti(llIt'

